
Why a book about what crypto OGs know?

We want to empower you to be successful on your crypto
journey.

We are crypto ogs that have seen a few things. We made
mistakes our first cycle. We want to help you avoid those
mistakes. We want to equip you with the knowledge you
need to survive and thrive in web3.
CONTRIBUTORS

arachaelp1z aoctanaiv a@owocki atrustlessstate

=

SN
SS

.>

a@OXD2_ETH a@DEATH_AND_TXS

a@sassal0x

ablasteasy a@nixorokish aabbey_titcomb

arheger7 a@spengrah a@irinamarinescu akbw

a@meta_dreamer @connorodayO agkimbwala a@you?
CONTRIBUTE

Want to meet other crypto people? Want
to help plan the 2024 edition of this book?
Join the telegram group.

[=

ORs

Not financial, legal or tax advice. This book is strictly
educational and is not investment advice, legal advice or a
solicitation to buy or sell any assets or to make any financial
decisions. This book is not tax advice. Talk to your accountant
and/or lawyer. Do your own research.

This book is licensed CC BY 4.0 (full code available here:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).
You may permissionlessly fork this book, make changes, and
republish them with attribution as long as proceeds go to the
public good or charitable causes.


| first got into the crypto industry in 2013 when it was very nascent and Bitcoin
was the only real game in town. | was young and relatively strapped for cash at
the time - around 21 years of age with not more than a couple thousand dollars
to my name - but | decided to put around half of my money into BTC. Of
course, | then proceeded to make the mistake that most “first cyclers” make - |
tried to trade my way to more BTC and in the process lost around 90% of what
| originally put in. Due to this, and due to the crash of BTC after Mt. Gox
collapsed, | decided to cut my losses and exit the crypto industry altogether in
early-mid 2014.

It wasn’t until early 2017 that | discovered Ethereum and became absolutely
obsessed with it for 2 reasons - Proof of Stake was incredibly fascinating to me
and the ability to actually build novel decentralized applications spoke to the
technologist within me. But those 3 years that | wasn’t around for cost me
dearly since | missed out on things like the Ethereum ICO and missed out on
being part of the earliest days of the Ethereum experiment - something that |
still regret to this day even in the face of all the success I’ve had.

The biggest takeaway from my journey in crypto so far has been that sticking
around in a bear market is the single best thing you can do. All the
opportunities lie in the bear market because all the “tourists” of the bull market
have disappeared and what's left are the real builders producing real value.
With this comes the opportunity to invest both time and capital into the things
being built which can pay off greatly once the tourists return. My own
experience here is a testament to this since sticking around in the 2018/2019
bear market was the single best decision of my entire life. Though in saying
that, the only reason | was able to make the decision to stick around was
because | learned from my mistakes in 2014 and was determined to not repeat
them.

Advice from my past self from a crypto OG.

One thing to know is that it’s going to be a wild ride and you'll love almost every
second of it! You get to work with people that you admire and coordinate on
solving some of the most interesting problems through the use of blockchain
technology. It might seem that it's all about cryptocurrency but when you dive
deeper you realize that there is so much more than that. It’s about the true
power of decentralization.

There's a lot to learn and many uncharted territories. You are going to feel like
you should know everything before you can contribute but the beauty of the
space is that you can contribute from what you know and continue to grow
from there. Sooner or later you will find a community that resonates with you
and when you do the best thing you can do is Knowledge share together and
explore the possibilities.

Buidl quick, fail forward and learn while you go. Always be buidling, not your
keys not your crypto, and always run your own node!

agkimbwala

441
12

gm 18-year-old Connor - believe it or not, I'm future you (long story) (also “gm” is cool now). That
weird Bitcoin thing you discovered is about to take you down a deep rabbit hole, so let me help you
speed-run learnings from a decade and 3 market cycles in “crypto”. To begin, your 1st cycle (the
tradooor). So you're a dorm room trader eh? Well, not a good one. It’s a dark forest out there and
the market will eat you for lunch. Have you heard about leverage? I'd say stay away, but sometimes
pain is the greatest teacher. You'll trade the market all the way up and back down, but eventually,
realize you're playing someone else’s game and were better off holding (not to mention the tax
headache). Mt. Gox implodes, | guess the “not your keys” people were right, I'm sure we won't
make that mistake again. Crypto is dead, but your first bear is the best time to learn - the quality of
information improves as mainstream interest declines.

2nd cycle (the holdooor): You bought a mining rig eh? You could’ve made more if you bought ETH
not GPUs, but the real value is actually participating in a network (and you can’t panic sell
knowledge). You've held conviction through the bear and learned to self-custody, use 2FA, and
ignore the paid Youtube shills. You trust, but verify. Congrats, you are officially a hodler, and... “this
time it's different” ...right? Look at this “adoption” and the institutions coming (soonTM). You
passed on the Eth presale, but you won't miss the next big thing so you buy all the hot ICOs. That
“number go up” on the screen could be life changing, but 2x more is all you need, so you chase a
moving target. Regardless you're a true believer, so you keep hodling, all way up! And all the way
back down...

3rd cycle (the buildooor): Down bad but in it for the tech eh? You didn’t invest more than you can
afford to lose, but you lost more than you can afford to stomach. You realize your ATH was never
real unrealized. You recognize market emotions, accumulate when fearful, divest when greedy.
Checking prices doesn’t cross your mind for days. This bear you're not just learning you're building.
The market flushed out the tourists, so you find like-minded friends and interesting projects to
explore. You focus on adding value, positive sum games. Ignoring the shills, maxis, grifters,
memecoins, fads. You experiment with new things, and you're rewarded with airdrops. You take
healthy profits, separating emotions from finances, and keep building. It took 3 cycles, but you feel
like you've made it, not always financially, but emotionally. You uplift family, friends, and colleagues
with you. The true number-go-up was the friends you made along the way. The wild volatility
cycles may dampen but ups and downs are inevitable - the “bull/bear cycle” is really a “fear/greed”
cycle. All experiences are different, but if | were you (and | am) | would aim to skip my mistakes of
the first 2 cycles. GLHF WAGMI!

aconnoroday0

Welcome, and hold on - it's going to be a wild ride with incredible people,
grifters, profits and losses. As you begin to explore this new world of crypto,
start by really trying to define your truths. Why are you here? What does
success of your time here mean to you? There is no wrong answer, just
knowing thyself will matter immensely as you move forward through the bear
and bull cycles. Write it down and reference it.

The communities that you will find pride in joining are often the most quiet
when inviting people and talking about what they do. Find the good people,
and offer support where you can. Ignore the hype and ignore the shifting sand.
When you look back, the people and times together are what you will
remember; bags full or empty the memories will last the longest.

-Kyle | kow.eth

os a@kbw
P.S. Keep track of transactions in a spreadsheet

to make your taxes easier.

18
14

Hi 2018 Bear Market Abbey,

If you're reading this, it's probably December 2018, and you just purchased a
Cryptopunk for $65 as a Christmas present for your Aunt.

You DEFINITELY should buy more.You don’t know it yet, but your life is going to
completely change over the course of the next couple of years. You'll quit your job
in a couple of months and buy a one-way ticket to follow some new friends you
met at DevCon in Prague (don’t worry, that was the last conference you'll go to
without knowing anybody). Those people, among others, will become your
absolute best friends. You'll travel the world with them, building, hacking, and
growing together.

After the last year, | know you're feeling uncertain. It’s an intimidating to be in —
especially when it seems like nobody understands what's going on. Be confident in
your experience and your knowledge. While you might feel like a noob now, you're
actually not. You don’t realize how much your time and effort will pay off. Some
people would even say you're an OG now. Just keep learning as much as you can.

Ignore the FUD, the pumps, and the dumps. Don’t get caught up in the noise —
and watch out for the people who do. The ones in it for the money will crash and
burn (bringing others down with them), but the ones who are driven to build a

better world will be there, quietly building in the background. Keep following them.

Most importantly, touch some grass. There's no rush — we're in it for the long run.

2023 Bear Market Abbey

) a») a@abbey_titcomb
nN
Ah, so you've found yourself falling down the crypto rabbit hole!

Congratulations! It's truly a once-in-a-lifetime experience. The crypto
rabbit hole is a bit like college. You only get to do it once, and it’s over
before you know it.

Crypto makes psych majors care about finance, and makes finance bros
understand community and culture. Crypto will reveal things about
yourself to you, and illuminate the world around you in ways you didn’t
know was possible. Crypto is a lens for viewing truth in the world.

Crypto spoils the polymaths. Those who can identify patterns across
disciplines tend to navigate the rabbit hole better than those whose
knowledge is siloed.

The progression down the crypto rabbit hole is not linear. It forks, splits,
and twists. It diverges, and then reconverts. It's a chose-your-own
adventure that always seems to loop back around to the beginning.
Eventually you'll have explored it all, and you will be a changed person for
it. Or perhaps you do not experience the same magic that I’ve found down
here, and that’s okay. Eventually, crypto will make something for you that
you enjoy, Crypto has something for everyone ©

atrustlessstate

'

15
16

KEV.eth
@owocki

If you could go back in time to when you first entered
crypto and tell your past self a few words of wisdom,
what would you tell them?

12:31 PM - Jan 17, 2023 - 55.1K Views

14 Retweets 11 Quote Tweets 131 Likes

Laura Helen Winn @LauraHelenWinn - Jan 17
Replying to @owocki

ignore the hype and find the people doing real work

©) vd G1 il 545 A,

mysselium @mysselium - Jan 17
Replying to @owocki

“this time” is never different

oO vd @ 2 ht 218 4

(2) Eduardo Tovar @theguacpapi - Jan 17
Replying to @owocki

There's a colossal difference between knowing
and understanding.

oe) ty oO: hi s2

nix @nixorokish - Jan 17

Replying to @owocki
engage with the community, you'll learn a lot
more than you'll learn on your own

QO ty @; hy 136 a

PG_CDG @PG_CDG - Jan 17
Replying to @owocki

Get the difference between:

- CEXs vs DEXs

- Bitcoin and Ethereum

- Custodial vs non-custodial

- It’s all about cypherpunks

ps: don’t buy jpegs.

oe) tt Gs i335

A -  superphiz.eth @superphiz - Jan 17
ye, Replying to @owocki

Be more willing to make a leap into full time crypto.
| was so scared. | held on to my previous job way
too long because | thrive on stability and | didn't
know how to handle health insurance.

.) ty . hy 62 AL

Igor Yuzo @igoryuzo - Jan 17
Replying to @owocki

1) Learn solidity

2) Build a small EVM dapp

3) Invest to learn risk management

4) Learn how to tweet to engage w. community


WELCOME TO THE FRONTIER.

Crypto is a frontier of the metaverse.

Surviving and thriving on this frontier requires knowledge of computers,
psychology, economics, game theory, legal, geopolitics, memes, and more.
You will be challenged on this frontier, even if you're a total polymath.

This is a frontier where new purpose can be found, new friends can be made,
new skills developed, where riches are gained and lost. Know yourself. What
are you here for?

We recommend that the frontiersperson take it slow & manage their risk. Don’t
invest more than you can afford to lose. Inch in slowly, especially with your
precious resources (usually time, reputation, & money), and only increase
investment after careful thought.

To gain a knowledge of this frontier, you may want to enter an OODA Loop
where you discover the frontier in increments:

1. Observe

2. Orient

3. Decide

4. Act

OODA Loops can be big or large. You can simultaneously iterate through
multiple daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, or yearly OODA Loops.

It is prudent to manage your risk aggressively, especially until you’ve been
through a few larger OODA Loops.
22

THE DUNNING KRUGER EFFECT

H
I
G
H | know everything
Trust me,
C it's complicated
fe) There's more to
N this than | thought
F
I
D .
E It’s starting
N I'm never going to make sense
c to understand this
6
W Huh?

LOW KNOWLEDGE IN FIELD HIGH
BEWARE THE DUNNING KRUGER EFFECT

There is a lot to learn about crypto and it’s adjacent fields. As you gain
knowledge of computers, psychology, economics, game theory, legal,
geopolitics, memes, and more, it is important to know what you don’t know.

Crypto is cyclical. From 2010 to 2023, it has moved in cycles with 10-50x
gains and 5x - 20x losses. One of the most common stories of loss and
hardship in the crypto frontier is someone joining during a bull market, making
some gains, thinking “I know everything” and then going all in - only to be
disappointed when it turns out you weren't knowledgeable, just full of hubris..

It is important to know what you do not know. The market is a fickle beast, and
as John Maynard Keynes once famously noted, it can stay irrational longer than
you can stay solvent.

23
24

HARD EARNED KNOWLEDGE

If we told you not to touch a hot stove, would you listen? Or would you
have to make the mistake yourself + only then would you learn?

Here are is some hard earned knowledge of crypto ogs.

1. Don’t be someone else's exit liquidity. If you're following an influencer
who recommends a token to you, is it because it’s a good token, or
because they have bags of it they want to dump on you?

2. Don’t trade on leverage. Leverage = borrowed money. The easiest way
to blow up your stack of tokens is to trade on borrowed money and get
liquidated.

3. Don’t invest more than you can afford to lose. It sounds like common
sense. And itis. But when number go up, you might forget it.

4. Never ever ever ever share your private keys or seed phrase. Once
someone has your private key or seed phrase, they can take all of your
assets. So don’t share it. Protect it!

5. Don’t recommend your friends or family buy crypto. Many a crypto og
has had relationships with friends and family gone wrong after providing
investment advice to a future unhappy bagholder.

6. Pay your taxes. Maintain a spreadsheet of your transactions through the
year. It’s not that hard, it just requires organization. And it'll avoid
future pain.

7. DYOR - Do your own Research. By doing your own research, you learn
to understand the market cycle, dynamics, and you become a more anti-
fragile economic actor.
26

NOT YOUR KEYS,
NOT YOUR CRYPTO

Crypto is built with blockchains. Your private keys unlock your
crypto. If you can unlock data on the blockchain, you own that data.

You hold your keys
Protecting them is your responsibility.
You own your crypto

1 SeHES HES HT

GHB HS ~~ HH
IES -#EX- 3 #%%=
=#HE -%H% - RGHES -
=i YOU 1%#% SMEREREES + ,
* #HS= ESE SRE aK,
a on ToT 1G HH Hae
FHERE HEELS YS sae te ae — 1eSHH= eK
“£5858 Cleese ! FEE,
"hE ae S SHES
"#%E% DoEEHEl GHG,
-=l s#H%e! -KERESEE SESE SAY ,
HER MHEES EL MERETS 1 SHES =
eH" HERE +54 NOA =%5atH
+e tee ye: %#% : a=
a te a %#% - ###=
=%%% * -«4#- | ON. «x0
-HHEH+ —— -=#%HE"

—FHGHHEGERE :

oydAI9 NOAA uMO Ady
“shay INOA 199]0/d 0] Way? IsNJ} NOA
“shay JNOA spjoy yueq oO dAID Vv
DON’T GET GOX’*D

Mtgox was a Bitcoin exchange based in Japan that launched in 2010 and blew
up in 2014.

FTX was a crypto exchange based in the Bahamas that launched in 2019 and
blew up in 2022.

What do users of MtGox and FTX have in common? They left their tokens on
an exchange, meaning they let someone else custody their keys. During the
fallout from the collapses of Mtgox and FTX, users were left without access to
their tokens for years. If they had only held their own keys, they wouldn't be
waiting in line for years in bankruptcy court competing with other creditors to
get theri money back.

In 2014, ogs learned the value of self-custody of their crypto assets. In 2022,
a new wave of future-ogs learned the same lesson of self-custody.

Self-custody of one’s keys means that you don’t have to trust anyone to
manage your tokens. This means less fragility with your financial life. This
book recommends learning about how to self-custody your keys. This means
learning how to:

1. Back up a seed phrase somewhere offline & safe. Keep your keys private.
2. Setup a hardware wallet (we recommend the GridPlus Lattice) if you need
to sign or send transactions.

27
28

CRYPTO OG OPSEC GUIDE

HOT WALLETS AND PUBLIC IDENTITY

Create a new Gnosis Safe and add your hot wallets as signers

Create new seed phrases for each wallet app you use

Use the Safe iOS / Android mobile apps to create mobile signers and interact with your
safe on the go

Use Frame.sh and its browser extension on desktop with a hardware wallet and/or
WalletConnect instead of keeping your seed phrase in a browser extension like
MetaMask

Point your main ENS to your Safe address

IMPORTANT: Ensure you create the Safe across multiple chains with the same address !!!
This ensures that people can send you stuff on any chain and it wont get lost.

Don't use Windows devices to store your hot wallets in case of malware. Prefer hardware
wallets or WalletConnect.

COLD STORAGE / SAVINGS

Keep cold storage funds in a Gnosis Safe secured by one or more hardware wallets as
signers on that safe.

Don't share the same seed phrase between multiple signers.

Require at least 2/X signers to execute.

When travelling abroad, never have more than one signer wallet on your person at any
time to mitigate wrench attacks.

Optionally add transaction guards for time-delayed transactions.

Optionally add spending limits for hot wallets or family members to be able to spend
from the Safe.

Don't store funds in the wallets, only use them as signers for the Safe.

Use WalletConnect to use Dapps with your Safe.

If a seed phrase gets lost or compromised, just use another signer you have to remove /
replace the lost wallet as a signer on the Safe. Seed phrases should be seen as fungible,
shouldn't be afraid to lose it.

Don't store or copy your seed phrase backup on any device that is connected to the
internet.
To create a tamper-proof physical backups of your seed phrase, write it in archival ink on
a thick piece of paper, fold it up, and laminate it. Store them safely in multiple locations,
ideally in something fire/waterproof. You can print something on the outside of the paper
before laminating as a decoy so no one knows there's a seed phrase inside.

PRIVACY AND SECURITY

Use Mullvad as a Privacy VPN and pay for it with cash / crypto to disassociate it with
your identity
Use physical 2FA devices like Yubikeys
Use a pseudonym to create a layer of separation between your physical identity and
your online public identity
Store passwords in a password manager. The most trusted and foolproof is Ipassword.
Bitwarden is a good self-hosted opensource alternative for more technical people.
Buy or build a NAS to keep your important documents / files / backups safe long term
and reduce your reliance on cloud storage / services.
e Synology is a good off the shelf option with the best UX and most functionality.
e Truenas is a good open-source option for power users who like to tinker and build
their own high end storage servers
e Unraid is a good option for people who want to use their own hardware but want
something more user-friendly
Use Tailscale to remotely connect to your local devices / NAS and self hosted services
without having to open ports in your firewall.
Upgrade your home router / firewall to something more robust. Ubiquiti's line of products
is a great user-friendly option. OPNSense is a good open source but more technical
option
e Create a separate VLAN for all loT / Smart devices in your home network. Only have
trusted devices on your main VLAN
¢ Turn on threat detection and prevention
¢ Create a honeypot VLAN to get visibility into potential attackers
¢ Create a separate Guest network for visitors / untrusted devices, will block access to
your trusted device
Install security cameras in your home that you can access remotely. Opt for local-only
devices without a cloud subscription. Unifi Protect is a good user friendly option. Frigate
is a good open source self-hosted option.

29
28

WHY IS CRYPTO SO FULL OF SCAMS?

Crypto does have some scams in it.

But look closer and you will see that there are many different subsegments of the crypto
community, who are building for very different reasons.

In the center of the crypto ecosystem is the core devs -the true believers who are building this
industry from first principles. They understand how cryptography and decentralization can help
bring positive influence to them, and are building the applications that could revolutionize the
internet of finance.

Examples: Vitalik Buterin, Satoshi Nakamoto.

The next outer ring is the crypto believers. These are the crypto power users. They believe in
the same future as the core devs, and are living on top of those foundations build by the core
devs. This circle is not just users, its application developers, dao members, comipanies, who are
building on top of the protocols created by the core devs.

This circle is filled with settlers not tourists.

Examples: Apps like Uniswap, Aave, Maker, Gitcoin, or DAQs like BanklessDAO, PleasrDAO, or
ConstitutionDAO.

The next outer ring is the crypto grifters - They make it difficult to hear the signal from the true
spearhead of the industry. Crypto Grifters are loud, self promoting and grandious. They employ
polarizing tactics and styles to extract wealth from people. Crypto Grifters are why crypto has a
bad name. Crypto Grifters knowingly build malicious products meant to trap the nearest naive
crypto noobies.

Examples: SBF, Do Kwon, etc
Rest of the World

Crypto Grifters

Crypto Believers

Core Devs

Do we have to live with the grifters?

In some ways yes, in some ways no. Access for everyone is a core value, blockchains are
permission less and can be accessed by anyone.

But at the social layer, we can build systems that make it easy to tell the crypto grifers from the
true beliers, the people who do evil to those who do good. Crypto is only 10 years old, and as

it evolves an immune system from these grifters, it will become safer for the median noobie.

Read more @ https://www.bankless.com/why-is-crypto-full-of-scams


HOW IT ALL STARTED

The primary innovation behind Bitcoin, Ethereum & other cryptoassets is
the ability to have a decentralized ledger.

On this decentralized ledger, each actor does not need to have to trust
each other. Instead, there are cryptographic operations that allow each
actor to easily verify the state of the ledger.

These cryptographic operations were how Satoshi Nakamoto, the author of
the Bitcoin whitepaper, solved the Byzantine Generals Problem. By solving
this game theoretic coordination problem with something called “Proof of
Work", Satoshi was able to to create something called Byzantine Fault
Tolerance - basically the ability for a system to be dependable with
potentially unreliable actors.

You can (and should) be skeptical that any specific token has any value.
But you can still appreciate that solving game theoretic coordination
problems is valuable.
BYZANTINE GENERALS PROBLEM

THE PROBLEM

u SS?
SY

If all generals are loyal, the result If one general is disloyal, result
is coordination and victory is discoordination and defeat!

FAULTS EMERGE

Generals can be bribed or otherwise disloyal.
Message, channel or messenger can be corrupted, lost or destroyed.
Poor decision making for some other reason.

SOLVING FAULTS WITH CRYPTOGRAPHY

Satoshi found a way to use cryptography to solve the Byzantine generals
problem on computer networks. Satoshi used hashing & public key
encryption to prevent data tampering & identify actors in the system. Each
transaction on a blockchain is secured in a block, which is hashed to provide
easy verifiability of its contents. These blocks are then chained together to
create an easily verifiable chain of knowledge.

BYZANTINE FAULT TOLERANCE

Describes the dependability of a system to reach accurate
consensus with potentially unreliable actors.

35
34

BITCOIN (2009)

Bitcoin is the first decentralized cryptoasset. It’s primary innovation was
the deployment of a highly available, public, decentralized ledger. Using
public-key encryption, users can update the ledger, sending Bitcoin (BTC),
from one address or another.

Bitcoin transactions are verified by Proof of Work consensus mechanism. A
network of miners race to find the next block of Bitcoin of transactions by
solving 1000s of cryptographic puzzles. A Bitcoin block is minted once
every ~10 minutes .

ETHEREUM (2015)

Ethereum is a 2nd generation decentralized ledger, invented by Russian-
Canadian programmer Vitalik Buterin. Its primary innovation was that it
extended the decentralized ledger with smart contracts.

By using smart contracts, programmers can build dApps (decentralized
applications) that coordinate the movement of tokens based on a set of
predefined rules, and without custody risk. Because of Ethereum’s
programmability & extensibility, an ecosystem of dApps has developed on
top of it.

Ethereum transactions are verified by Proof of Stake consensus
mechanism. A network of validators with staked ETH attached to them are
the foundation of the Ethereum network, validating each new valid
transaction.
DEVELOPMENT

DEVELOPMENT

UPGRADES AND CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT

TIMELINE OF ETHEREUM

NOV | 20135
Vitalik Buterin publishes a white
paper describing a way to build Gavin Wood's Yellow Paper is
decentralized applications, and released, providing a technical
Ethereum is announced definition of Ethereum
i Ether public crowd sale
The Ethereum Foundation JuL| 2015 p
(EF) is founded.
First NFT deployed
Launch Frontier: the first release of the
Ethereum network to the general public. war] 2016 TheDAO Hack
$150m crowd sale by TheDAO
MolochDAO
Virgil Griffith arrest
OCT} 2020
Introduction of staking to
Beacon Chain launches after the Ethereum ecosystem
16,284 deposits of 32 staked ETH
Virgil Griffith pleads guilty
NOV} 2021
Ether all time high
_ , Record high NFT sale
ConstitutionDAO bids on a
copy of the U.S. Constitution
Paris Upgrade: The Merge,
Proof of Work upgraded to
Proof of Stake
DEC} 2022

FTX collapse and SBF arrest

35
36

DEFI (2017+)

DeFi is short for Decentralized Finance. By leveraging the programmability
of the Ethereum blockchain and its smart contract functionalities, dApps
can be built that create more sophisticated financial functionality.

e Some examples: MakerDAO has created a stablecoin called DAI that is
designed to be stable where 1 DAI = 1 USD.

e AAVE is a trustless borrowing & lending protocol, allowing for users to
borrow assets, earn interest, and build applications that leverage
borrowing.

e Uniswap is a trustless trading platform, which allows users to swap 1
token for another token.

NFTS (2047+)

An asset is fungible if it is replaceable by another identical item. For
example, 1 USD is fungible with another 1 USD. In contrast, a baseball card
of Player A is not fungible with another baseball card of Player B.

Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are a standard way of managing non-fungible
assets. Some popular NFT projects:

« Cryptokitties - one of the first NFT projects to gain adoption

e OpenSea - popular NFT marketplace

¢ cryptopunks - popular og NFT

e Nouns - popular NFT DAO
DAOS (2020+)

A Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) is a form of organization
facilitated by the blockchain instead of by a nation-state legal system.

Definitions vary but one way to think about a DAO is like a group chat with
shared control over its assets.

More advanced DAOs take advantage of the benefits of decentralization to

build networks that do not resemble off-chain forms of organization.

1. Decentralization for making better decisions in democratic
environments.

2. Decentralization for censorship resistance

3. Decentralization as credible neutrality

WEBS REPUTATION (2022+)

What is possible with all of the data emissions coming out of crypto
networks? What kinds of new reputation systems will be built on top of
web3?

A very rudimentary example of web3 reputation: Airdrops. A very common
token distribution mechanism is to give tokens to people who have a
specific set of attributes (they used your dApp, contributed to your Gitcoin
Grant, etc)

Web3 reputation has high upside insofar as it can help incentivize more
positive sum games with more known counter-parties. Much of our
financial lives & our credit system is built on repetitional infrastructure. But
without privacy & sovereignty built into the foundation of web3 reputation,
it is also a honeypot for incentive misalignment.

37
38

WEBS IS
EVOLVING.

Natural ecosystems are evolutionary & powered by natural selection.
Similarly, Web3 is an evolutionary ecosystem powered by market selection.

In times of abundance, 1000s of new species blossom. In times of scarcity,
many projects will fail. The survivors will be the dominant species of next
boom. And so on, ad infinitum. Innovate, iterate, evolve, repeat. Survival of
the fittest is a simple yet powerful mechanism enabling the web3
ecosystem to fit the preferences of market-selection.

If we speed run this ecosystem evolution, we see the degenerative species
(which by definition are short term greedy, but over long term tend to self-
terminate) collapse, and we see the regenerative species (which are long
term greedy, resistant to shock, and grow over time) grow. Cast the dice
1000 times, the results will be the same each time!

Keystone species hold together the complex web of relationships in an
ecosystem. What are the web3 keystone species? What are the web3-
analogues to dolphins, humans, or mycelial networks? One strategy for
choosing which projects are worth focusing on is finding & supporting
regenerative species & keystone species of web3.

FEAST & FAMINE

Because Bitcoin is the first cryptoasset, it is historically the primary asset
people get when they enter the crypto ecosystem.

This is changing with the creation of other blue-chip assets like ETH, SOL,
ATOM, etc, but historically the crypto market-cycles hasve been driven by
Bitcoin.

Because Bitcoin is very volatile, this has meant the crypto cycle goes through
alternative feast or famine moments. In the bull run times, the ecosystem is
expanding, capital is cheap, and everyone is richer (at least on paper). In bear
times, the ecosystem contracts, people/projects leave the ecosystem, and
everyone is poorer (at least on paper).

The legend is that this cycle is driven by the Bitcoin halvening (a supply
issuance reduction every 4 years), which reduces supply. Assuming constant
or increasing demand for BTC, this could cause an supply/demand imbalance,
which causes an upward swing in the price of Bitcoin. It has many times in the
past. Past performance is not a predictor of future results, and “constant or
increasing demand for BTC” is not something that we can bet will always be
true.

Over time, the supercycle may evolve into several subcycles, and different
corners of the crypto ecosystem will oscillate between bull & bear at different
times from one another.

41
PRICE

42

APP/INFRASTRUCTURE CYCLES

APPS

INFRASTRUCTURE STACK

As the cycle of bull & bear ebbs & flows, capital becomes cheap or
becomes scarce. During the this cycle, investment flows into applications &
also to infrastructure that serves those applications.

The cycle is typically

1. There is a breakout app.

2. That breakout app inspires new infrastructure that makes it easier to
build similar apps.

3. This enables new applications with broader adoption.

4. (repeat)
PRICE

This cycle has played out a number of times in the crypto ecosystem thus
far, starting with the first breakout app (BTC). This cycle of app &
infrastructure growth is displayed in the graph below.

Read more on the USV blog: https://www.usv.com/writing/2018/10/the-
myth-of-the-infrastructure-phase/

APPS
2017 MakerDAO
2020 Compound

APPS 2021 OpenSea

2011 Silk Road
2016 Tokens
2017 CryptoKitties

INFRASTRUCTURE

APPS
2008 BTC 2020 Las
INFRASTRUCTURE 2022 Proof of Stake
2016 Infura 2022 GridPlus Lattice
INFRASTRUCTURE 2017 Web3js
2008 Bitcoin 2017 OpenZeppelin
2012 Coinbase 2018 ERC721

2015 Ethereum
2015 Metamask
2015 ERC20

43
44

WYCKOFF CYCLES

Richard Wyckoff (1873-1934) was an early pioneer in the technical analysis to
studying the stock market. He founded & edited The Magazine of Wall Street
for 20 years.

Wyckoff observed the market activities and campaigns of the legendary stock
operators of his time, including JP Morgan & Jesse Livermore. From his
interviews with those big-time traders, Wyckoff codified their best practices
and learned the “real rules of the game”.

From his position, Mr. Wyckoff observed numerous retail investors being
repeatedly fleeced. Consequently, he dedicated himself to educating the public
about “the real rules of the game” as played by the large monied interests, or
“smart money.”

In the 1930s, he founded a school which would later become the Stock Market
Institute. The school’s main offering was a course that integrated the concepts
that Wyckoff had learned about how to identify large operators’ accumulation &
distribution with how to take positions that take advantage of the positions of
large players. Wyckoff's methods are fundamental as financial markets, and they
are relevant today in the crypto market.

Read more: https://school.stockcharts.com/doku.php?
id=market_analysis:the_wyckoff_method
PRICE

Wyckoff cycles are foundational to financial markets. The Wyckoff market
cycle reflects Wyckoff’s theory of what drives a asset price movement. The
four phases of the market cycle are accumulation, markup, distribution, and
markdown.

Typically during the accumulation phase, Smart Money is buying & “dumb”
money is selling. Once there is no more supply to purchase, the asset price
accumulates. Conversely, during the distribution phase, the smart money is
selling & the dumb money is buying. Once there is no more supply to
distribute, the asset price depreciates.

DISTRIBUTION AREA

OVERBOUGHT

Smart Money is selling
Dumb money is buying

Smart Money is buying
Dumb money is selling

Vv

OVERSOLD Markup Markdown

ACCUMULATION AREA

45
46

GARTNER HYPE CYCLE

Hype Cycles are a tool that allow people to get educated on the promise of an up & coming
technology.

Each Hype Cycle has five phases:

1. Innovation Trigger - A technological breakthrough happens + kicks off innovation.

2. Peak of Inflated Expectations - Early interest in the innovation trigger produces a number of
success stories.

3. Trough of Disillusionment - Interest wanes as experiments fail to deliver. Producers of the
technology fail.

4. Slope of enlightenment - More instances of how the technology can benefit the enterprise
start to crystallize and become more widely understood.

5. Plateau of Productivity - Mainstream adoption starts to take off. It is easier to assess actual
viability of each technology.

You can read more about Hype Cycles @ hitps://blogs.gartner.com/

REFLEXIVITY

Reflexivity means that price of an asset can influence the perceived value of that asset. This can
create a feedback loop, where price increases lead to increased speculation and further price
increases. The same thing can happen on the downslope, as price decreases shake confidence
and cause more decreases.

This price reflexivity tracks pretty closely with the Gartner Hype Cycle. Some products never
recover, others continue to innovate and repeat the hype cycle multiple times.

A good example is ETH - check out the prices on January 15th of each of the fallowing years:
2017: $9

2018: $1276

2019: $120

2020: $166

2021: $1170

2022: $3328

2023 (Jan Sth): $1250
PRICE

REFLEXIVITY IN A HYPE CYCLE

INFLATED EXPECTATIONS

4 4 4 Innovative team
restarts the cycle

PRODUCTIVITY

PLATEAU

DISILLUSIONMENT
Rugs
Scams

INNOVATION TRIGGER Weak Projects

TIME

47
48

THE PRISONERS* DILEMMA

The Prisoners Dilemma is a category of coordination game where the incentives of players
diverge - and without a mechanism for coordination between players, a rational player will
choose their own benefit at expense of other players (and the expense of everyone in the
game).

Here’s how it works: Imagine two members of a criminal organization are arrested and
imprisoned. Each prisoner has no means of communicating with the other.

Suppose the prosecutors lack sufficient evidence to convict the pair on the primary charge,
but they have enough to convict both on a secondary charge.

Simultaneously, the prosecutors offer each prisoner a bargain. Each prisoner is given the
opportunity either to betray the other by supply evidence that the other committed the
crime, or to cooperate with the other by remaining silent. The possible outcomes are:

If player A and player B each betray the other, each of them serves 3 years in prison

If player A betrays player B but player B remains silent, player A will be set free and player
B will serve 5 years in prison

If player A remains silent but player B betrays player A, player A will serve 5 years in
prison and player B will be set free

If player A and player B both remain silent, both of them will serve only 1 year in prison (on
the lesser charge).

As betraying the other player offers a greater reward than cooperating with them, all purely
rational self-interested prisoners without the ability to coordinate will betray the other. Only
mutual cooperation would yield greater reward - but with no way to coordinate towards that,
it is not likely to happen.
THE PAYOFF MATRIX

Defect Cooperate SETUP

Defect

STRATEGIES AVAILABLE TO EACH PRISONER
Confess (DEFECT!)

a. other prisoner confesses as well, we'll both get 3 years
b. if the other prisoner remains silent, i'll get off while they'll
get 5 years.

Remain silent (COOPERATE!)

a. Other prisoner confesses, | get 5 years

b. Other prisoner silent as well, we'll both only get 1 year

Cooperate

THE DOMINANT STRATEGY WITHOUT COORDINATION

To the individual, the dominant strategy would seem to be to confess to avoid maximum 5
years for themselves, and try for highest reward of 0 years, at the cost of the other. Worse
case is 3 years if the other confesses as well.

From the collective perspective, cooperating by both remaining silent ensures lowest
average punishment for both. But if the other doesn’t cooperate as well, there is risk of
receiving the maximum punishment.

THE DOMINANT STRATEGY WITH COORDINATION

The prisoners cannot communicate and cannot trust each other to remain silent. But if the
prisoners dilemma was reconstructed to be on chain, decentralized blockchain and
govemance can help agents coordinate with a transparent & trustlessness coordination
layer.

Your prisoners are interrogated in separate rooms for a crime.

49
50

You

THE PUMP & DUMP

SETUP

Blockchain Influencer SHILL_Lambo42069 has an audience of 420k followers, who follow them for
entertaining & informative market analysis of web3.

@SHILL_Lambo42069 STRATEGIES AVAILABLE
SHILL_Lambo42069
Provide value (Cooperate!)

Defect Cooperate

| 0% You could do a lengthy analysis of what tokens have

2 fundamental value & write a comprehensive report of what
its value proposition is

2

3 Pump and Dump (DEFECT!)

8 You pick up a bag of $FOO token and you use your influence

° to get your followers to pile in after you. When the price has
appreciated, you dump your tokens for a nice 10x profit.

You

You are one of SHILL_Lambo42069's 420k followers, so it does not really matter what you do.

ShillLambo42069
@SHILL_Lambo42069

The token $FOO is a sure thing. I’m buying this before
it goes TO THE MOON! 4471 #

3:00 PM - March 17, 2022 - 420.1K Views

69 Retweets 69 Quote Tweets 420 Likes

CRYPTO OG LESSON

This scam is the prisoners dilemma in practice. To avoid being an influencers exit liquidity,
do your own research on the viability of each token before you get involved into it. Anytime
you get advice, ask yourself if the advisor has diverging incentives from your own.
You

THE PHISHING ATTACK

SETUP

Hacker Group LAZARUS has figured out they can install malware on peoples computers and steal

their private keys.

LAZARUS

Defect Cooperate

Defect

Cooperate

CRYPTO OG LESSON

STRATEGIES AVAILABLE
LAZARUS
Do Nothing (Cooperate!)

Phishing Attack (DEFECT!)
Trick an unwitting crypto user into clicking on a malware link,
and then use it to steal their tokens.

Beware that there are attackers out there that will try to get you to run software on your computer.
Be discerning about any links you open. Never enter your private keys into any internet connected
device. Do not store your private keys on a device connected to the internet.

THE FAKE PROJECT

SETUP

Software engineer NeoSatoshi has an idea for a new token and is doing a pre-sale for investors.

LAZARUS

Defect Cooperate

You

CRYPTO OG LESSON

STRATEGIES AVAILABLE

NeoSatoshi

Build a legitimate project (Cooperate!)

Identify a real need in the market, assemble the team, capital,
and network that is needed to create value. Grind for years.

Dump (DEFECT!)
Mint a bunch of tokens for yourself and dump them on
market as soon as your project gets hot.

There are a lot of fakes out there. Look for a real market opportunity & actual momentum and
legitimate purpose/community being built before getting involved in a project.

51

ATTRIBUTES OF DAOS

BLOCKCHAIN BASED
technology is used to operate critical
business functions, e.g tokenized

shares, crypto payments, payroll, etc.

“Blockchain-enhanced”
traditional business

Crypto Companies

INTERNET

NATIVE COMMUNITY OWNED
created and operated ownership is in the hands
entirely on the of a large community who

governs and captures value
produced by the business

internet-a physical
entity is not relevant
to define its business

source

‘oot Traditional co-ops
projects

(centralized)

Pure internet
communities

Traditional co-ops
(decentralized)

DECENTRALIZED

No core/decision-making team or
governing body, all participants
share common goals, critical

decisions are made bottoms-up

TYPES OF DAOS

: Types of DAOs Types of DAOs
B Public Goods Investment
E Social Service Provider
cS) .

Collectives

Na, Impassable Chasm

PROFITABILITY

A DAO can focus on non-financial benefits - like providing public
goods or making a fun social crew. Or it can focus on making profits
by providing services or managing investments.

It’s basically impossible to switch from one to the other because the
transition irreparably changes the vibes.

Even vibes-oriented DAOs need some source of revenue to
compensate contributors, so think about this when you're forming.
Look for grants, partnerships, or even profit-oriented sub-DAO to
make it possible.

55
56

DAO HUMAN ACTION TRILEMNA

The most commonly referenced trilemma in crypto is the scalability trilemma. Just
as it's hard for a blockchain to be secure, decentralized, AND scalable, it's hard for
DAOs to achieve action, agreement, AND shared content. This is the DAO Human
Action Trilemma.

MISDIRECTED ACTION - For DAOs, shared context generally means that every
contributor Knows what the DAO's goals are, what work is happening, who is
working on what, and how to contribute. Making this happen is a major challenge
for onboarding and retaining talent. Ignoring it can save time but it creates some
risks, namely that people will leave because they don't know how to participate or
they work on things that don't align with the DAO’ overall goals.

LEGITIMATE INACTION - While it sounds great to make ensure everyone has
shared context and agrees on a way forward, both these things are biased against
action. A DAO risks falling behind the market or failing to do anything at all.

ILLEGITIMATE ACTION - Getting everyone to agree on every decision is a real
challenge. Your DAO can help overcome it by defaulting to "yes" on contributor
proposals, reducing the threshold for approval, or delegating authority up front.
Still, without actively soliciting feedback, contributors can lose trust in the DAO's
direction of the DAO and potentially fork it, creating a new DAO with their
preferred focus.

57
58

THE HOWEY TEST

If you're going to contribute to crypto companies and DAOs, it is useful to
understand The Howey Test.

The Howey Test is the framework set by the U.S. Supreme Court to determine
whether a transaction qualifies as an “investment contract” and therefore be
considered a security. There’s uncertainty on how it applies to crypto.

It's important to note that the Howey Test is applied at a moment in time rather
than universally. Let's go through an example of a fake cryptocurrency called
Capuchin Coin and apply the Howey Test to it.

Howey Test (Must Meet All Four)

* A party invests money

¢ Ina common enterprise

¢ With the expectation of profiting

¢ Based on the efforts of a third party
GROUP OF FRIENDS LAUNCH
CAPUCHIN COIN AS A JOKE

Verdict: Probably Not a Security

Assuming no third party buys the memo coin, and given it
was launched as a joke among friends, there's no value
exchange and so no expectation of profit.

FRIENDS REALIZE THEY HAVE TRACTION
AND DO AN INVESTMENT ROUND

Verdict: Probably a Security

A party is investing in the team with the expectation that they'll
do work that'll drive profit. Assuming the meme coin itself
represents the contract, it's likely a security.

AFTER BUILDING CAPUCHIN PROTOCOL,
TEAM PLANS TO DECENTRALIZE CONTROL
BY DISTRIBUTING CAPUCHIN COIN TO
USERS TO USE FOR GOVERNANCE

Verdict: Probably Not a Security

This one is the least clear-cut but it's likely not a security
distribution as long as no value is being provided to the team
by the users upfront, and the users could not conceivably have
any expectation of a profit that depends on the team’s actions

59
60

LAYER HUMAN

With Ethereum we can build an infinite machine of interoperable ecosystems. Each cog in

this system has the opportunity to push this machine forward and by proxy all other
ecosystems.

TYPES OF PROJECTS

SSROMORSS

The Frontender The Storyteller
The Rogue The Coordinator
The Artist The Backend Dev

Ecosystems can be viewed as an unique collection of roles, characters, memelords.
They need each other to flourish.
DECENTRALIZATION
REQUIRES PARTICIPATION

Build your character and join the party. If you don't, we're building shiny new tools for the
managers of the past.

Technical
Organized Social
Lone
Wolf Innovative
Creative
THE STORYTELLER === THE FRONTENDER === THE COORDINATOR
THE BACKEND DEV ==<<= THE ARTIST === THE ROGUE

61
62

7 ESSENTIAL DAO SKILLS

BASIC KNOWLEDGE OF BLOCKCHAIN -DAOs are organizations that base their
operations on the blockchain. You will not be able to understand the power of
DAOs if you do not first understand the basics of blockchain

FAST LEARNING - The ecosystem is constantly changing. Learning must be
continuous. Learn by doing, learn by consuming information, learn by socializing.

TIME MANAGEMENT - The freedom offered by DAOs has it’s advantages and
disadvantages. One of the disadvantages is that you must learn to manage your
time to be effective.

COMMUNICATION - Communication in web3 is critical. Most web3 organizations
are remote organizations, which present their own communication challegnes.
Subject matter in web3 is highly contextual and sometimes technical, which also
presents communication challenges.

PROBLEM-SOLVING - Decentralized governance is an unsolved problem, and
coordination is sometimes inefficient. Technical problems can be deep
rabbitholes. A decisive and skilled problem solved will be successful in any DAO.

TEAMWORK - The ability to work in a team will help you become a great contributor.
DAO work is often divided into subDAOs or workstreams. Since there is less
hierarchy in DAOs than in a corporation, everyone must take on the
communication burden of being a leader.

AUTONOMY - In a DAO you must be autonomous, proactive, and biased towards
action. Autonomy comes with great power and great responsibility.

Read More on bankless: https://banklessdao.substack.com/p/7-essential-skills-
to-thrive-in-daos
WEBS REPUTATION

“The most important scarce resource is legitimacy.” Vitalik Buterin

As you grow your web3 reputation, you will accrue more legitimacy



LIVE PLAYER VS DEAD PLAYER

New skill 3

New skill 2

New habit 2
New habit 1

New skill 1

Dead player
trendline

TIME

LIVE PLAYER - A person or well-coordinated group of people that is able
to do things they have not done before.

DEAD PLAYER - A person or group of people that is working off a script,
incapable of doing new things

EXAMPLE - Without a concerted effort to become a live player, people will
keep working off the same script instead of doing new things.

If an ecosystem has enough live players, innovation can build on innovation
in a virtuous cycle, like we see with Ethereum. This keeps ecosystems
alive, vibrant, and anti-fragile
BE A LIVE PLAYER, ANON.



Decentralized a chains (BTC, ETH) Secure

The blockchain scalability trilemma is a term used to describe the trade-offs that
exist between three key properties of blockchain networks:

> scalability, security, and decentralization.

The blockchain scalability trilemma posits that it is difficult to optimize for all three
of these properties simultaneously. For example, a highly scalable blockchain
network may sacrifice some degree of security or decentralization in order to
achieve its high transaction throughput.

As a result, it is important to find solutions that can balance these trade-offs and
enable blockchain networks to achieve a good level of scalability, security, and
decentralization.
The Dilemma:

Scalability, security, and decentralization are often in conflict with each other in a
blockchain system because they can have opposing effects on the performance of the
network.

For example, increasing the scalability of a blockchain network by allowing it to process
more transactions per second may require the network to sacrifice some degree of
security, by using less secure consensus mechanisms or by reducing the number of
nodes that are required to validate transactions. Similarly, increasing the security of a
blockchain network by using more robust consensus mechanisms or by requiring more
nodes to validate transactions can reduce the network's scalability, as it may take
longer for transactions to be processed and confirmed.

Finally, increasing the decentralization of a blockchain network by allowing more nodes
to participate in the validation of transactions can also have positive effects on the
network's security. For example, a more decentralized network is less susceptible to
51% attacks, as it would require a much larger number of nodes to control a majority of
the network's mining power or computational resources. However, increasing
decentralization can also have negative effects on the network's scalability, as it may
require more resources to reach consensus and process transactions.

Can we have it all?

It is not clear whether it is possible to completely solve the scalability trilemma in
blockchain technology. The scalability trilemma describes the trade-offs that exist
between the three key properties of scalability, security, and decentralization, and
these trade-offs may be inherent to the nature of blockchain networks. As a result, it
may be necessary to constantly optimize and balance these properties in order to
achieve a good level of performance in a blockchain network. However, it is also
possible that new breakthroughs and innovations in blockchain technology may lead to
solutions that can more effectively address the scalability trilemma and enable
blockchain networks to achieve higher levels of scalability, security, and
decentralization simultaneously.

Layer 2 technologies like zk-rollups and optimistic rollups can help solve the scalability
trilemma by increasing the scalability of blockchain networks without sacrificing too
much in terms of security or decentralization.

69
70

HARDNESS=CERTAINTY

Human civilization depends in part on our ability to make the future more certain
in specific ways. Fixed, hard points across time that let us make the world more
predictable.

Before blockchains, we did not have hardness in digital form. In web2, you are
just a serf in Zuckerberg’s kingdom. You have no property rights, and your web2
account can be taken from you at any time without any due process.

Blockchains enable digital hardness, which allows participants in the metaverse
to have faith that their assets wont be taken away from them over time. This
certainty enables digital economies to flourish, similar to how the introduction of
property rights into legal systems enabled economic growth centuries ago.

Read more about Atoms, Institutions, Blockchains, on Josh Starks’ medium:
https://stark.mirror.xyz/n2UpRqwdf7yjuiPKVICPpGoUNeDhIWxGqjulrlpyYi0
SOURCES OF

ATOMS

AGE

13.8 billion years ago (used by
humans for 100k+ years)

EXAMPLES

There’s only a limited amount
of gold available on Earth.
Because of this physical
truth, it's expensive or very
hard to change the supply.

APPLICATIONS

The supply of gold is atom-hard,
making it a good money & store
of value.

HARDNESS

a

INSTITUTIONS

AGE

Thousands of years

EXAMPLES

If you break a law, groups of
people like police & legal
systems will work together to
punish you.

These groups have existed for
100s of years and are likely to
continue acting this way.

APPLICATIONS

We can create rules (laws) that
are institution-hard.

Individuals can create their own
custom rules (contracts) that
bootstrap off a common source
of institutional hardness.

-

NLA

BLOCKCHAINS

AGE

12 years

EXAMPLES

Falsely editing a blockchain's
state is expensive or
impossible due to economic
security and cryptography.

APPLICATIONS

We can create very hard
guarantees about the supply
of a digital asset or an
economic contract.

Anyone can use a blockchain
to create digital objects &
rules that are blockchain-hard.

71
SUPERMODULARITY IS A SUPERPOWER

MODULARITY

Modularity is what allows productive endeavors in ecosystems without centralized coordination

© } } © © Contained Scope,
Independent Operation,
© ©} } © Interoparability

EXAMPLE: THE UNIX PHILOSOPHY

The Unix philosophy, originated by Ken Thompson, is a set of cultural norms

and philosophical approaches to minimalist, modular software development.

@ Write programs that do one thing well
@ Write programs to work together
@ Write programs to handle text streams, because that is a common interface

BEFORE AFTER

Competing monolthic & proprietary Software that does one thing + does it well, which
software with undocumented scope can be composed into something that does a more
+ boundaries complex thing well (or many things well)

SES 8888S
SUPERMODULARITY

Supermodular games are those characterized by “strategic complementarities”. In
a supermodular ecosystem, one agent's decision improves the incentives of
others. The amount of value created grows exponentially.

Y Y Y Strategic Complemeniaries
O(n*2)

Shared Audience
Partnerships

XL

EXAMPLE: THE WEBS ECOSYSTEM

Web3 programs are supermodular, because:

® Each protocol does one thing + does it well.

* Via composability, the protocols can be built together.
® There isa separation of concerns between modules.
® There are strategic complementaries among modules.


Because of the supermodularity of the web3 ecosystem, it
is possible for a group of hackers to build in a weekend
what it would have taken a bank 10 years + $25m to do.

BEFORE AFTER

Competing monolthic & proprietary Software that does one thing + does it well, which
banking software with undocumented can be easily composed into something that does
scope + privileged access. a more complex thing well (or many things well).

PREPOSTEROUS
POSSIBLE
PLAUSIBLE
PROBABLE
PROJECTED

THE FUTURE

THE PRESENT CONTAINS MANY POSSIBLE FUTURES

> How might we imagine projected, probable, or plausible futures that allow

humanity to coordinate around aligned values?

—> How might we articulate these common values? What do they consist of?
—> When does a vision of the future transform into a radical social movement?
—> How might such a social movement be facilitated and supported by network

technologies?
NOW
UTOPIAN

K PROTOPIAN

DYSTOPIAN
POTENTIAL

> TIME

NOT ALL FUTURES ARE CREATED EQUAL

—> How do we imagine futures that foster a plurality of values?

—> How might we cease in manifesting futures that exacerbate violent moral
agendas and increase global existential risks?

> How far ahead can we perceive? How might we sharpen our prognostication
skills to avoid catastrophe?

77
78

CRYPTO POLITICAL IDEOLOGIES

CYPHERPUNK

A  Cypherpunk is any_ individual advocating
widespread use of strong cryptography and privacy-
enhancing technologies as a route to social and
political change.

SOLARPUNK

Solarpunk is a movement in speculative fiction, art,
fashion, and activism that seeks to answer and
embody the question “what does a sustainable
civilization look like, and how can we get there?”

Some have said the core tenents of Solarpunk are
hope in transparency through on-chain verification
towards a utopian vision

LUNARPUNK

Lunarpunk is regarded as the sibling aesthetic of
Solarpunk. Lunarpunk, to its more _ universal
properties, references witchcraft, futuristic design,
nature, renewable energy, and the circle of life

Some have said the core tenants of Lunarpunk are
determinism in anonymity through on-chain
encryption to avoid a dystopian solutionism.
SYNTHETIC DEMOCRACY

Al Singularity, automated luxury

communism, Al abundance, Al maximalism,

universam basic income, post-scarcity

Shared central values:
Universalism
Economic efficiency/growth
Meritocracy

POLITICAL

IDEOLOGIES
FOR THE 24ST CENTURY

CORPORATE
LIBERTARIANISM

Individual sovereignty, exitocracy,
neoreaction (NRx), dark enlightenment,
anarcho-capitalism, Bitcoin maximalism,
crypto maximalism, cypherpunk, bronze
age mindset, techno-libertarianism

Shared central values:
Economic equality
Large-scale cooperation
Mitigation of existential risk

Shared central values:
Decentralization
Rights
Freedom

DIGITAL DEMOCRACY

Plurality, digital pluralism, digital dignity,
21st century participatory democracy, fork-
and-merge government, wiki government

79
80

THE METACRISIS

HIGH

2. DYSTOPIAS
(authoritarian regimes)

41. CATASTROPHIES
(coordination failures)

3. THIRD ATTRACTOR

System Of Surveillance/Governance?

Y Axis - How Corrupt Is The

LOW X Axis - How Well Are We Solving For Catrasrophies Coordination Failures? HIGH

The Meta-crisis is the tendency for human governed systems to be stuck between
catastrophes (coordination failures like climate change, nuclear proliferation, Al
risk) and dystopian authoritarian regimes.

Humans who are uncoordinated cause coordination failures. Then there is a
natural tendency to want to regulate those coordination failures. But once you've
given someone the power to regulate you, how do you prevent them from abusing
that power for their own gain.

What if we could create a system of governance that cannot be captured, but also
can solve coordination failures.

Many of us think that crypto is this system of governance.

What would need to be true for humanity to manifest a third attractor?
« What would this third attractor consist of?

How might we imagine a strategy for realizing this vision?

How long will it take? How do we build it?
THE SEPARATION OF MONEY AND STATE

“Chancellor on the brink of 2nd bailout for banks”. ~ The London Times

This phrase was famously embedded into the first transaction ever on the
Bitcoin Blockchain in January 2009.

Satoshi is said to have embedded this phrase into Bitcoin’s genesis block as a
statement of criticism of the governments bailout of banks during the 2008
financial crisis.

For most of human history, money has had a natural resource cost (the cost of
precious metals). Separation of money and state is the historic norm, even
though the state stamps their ruler’s face on the coin.

But in 1971, the United States left the gold standard, meaning its currency was
no longer pegged to gold. Instead the USD became a fiat currency - ie backed
by the trust in a government.

Without their currencies being attached to a natural resource cost, Central
Banks across the world began inflating their currencies to pay for expenditures
they otherwise could not afford.

By inflating their currencies, governments created spending money. But they
also inflated the monetary supply, thereby reducing the value of everyone else's
savings.

In advocating for the return to a separation between money & state, blockchain
enthusiasts are advocating for being able to store their wealth in a place where
it cannot be inflated away, seized without due process, or monetized by a bank.
Different blockchains have different approaches to monetary policy, some some
sticking more closely to this principle than others.

Many people advocate for such a change, and web3 technology makes it
actually possible.

81
THE GREENPILL THESIS

$10 Trillion Spent On Public Goods In 2021 In The U.S. Alone

What if regen web3 could allocate this capital better?
We could align impact with profit if we rotate attention,
capital, talent, & resources towards regenerative web3.

THE FOUNDATION

Legacy institutions for supporting public good are:

OPAQUE UNACCOUNTABLE INEFFICIENT OFTEN CENTRALIZED

O O O O

Web3 provides a better coordination substrate:

TRANSPARENT UNCORRUPTABLE LAYER PROGRAMMABLE PERMISSIONLESS

What if we could help NGOs, nonprofits, & even
government agencies, to leverage web3 tech?

An ImpactDAO = as any web3 Oo Open source = capture

project that creates net positive QPo resistent (no more capture by

externalities to the ecosystem oO big tech)

around it.

Proof of Impact > No Proof Of Pluralistic Why rely on one entity in your
Impact (watt why HAVEN'T we community for public good, when you

. . can leverage the power of many open
2
been demanding proof of impact?) source toolkits? Choose the right tool for
the right job.

82
(
CD

THE OPPORTUNITY

)

4

?¢ °
QS OR

Car,
Not all websites are created With programmable money, We can use these tools to
equal. Neither are all web3 We can now program our build many value-oriented
projects. Focus our attention values into our money. economies (ImpactDAOs)
on regenerative web3 projects. at webscale.

A DIVERSE & THRIVING ECOSYSTEM
OF IMPACTDAOS COULD MEAN:

alk 2 5

higher resolution more democratic better collective
digital democracy capital allocation resource allocation

Al 3)

more funding to better funding
localized economies of causes citizens
actually care about

