Why a book on Regenerative

ZN

If you can look beyond the attention-grabbing headlines about NFTS, DEFI, and price volatility,
you will glimpse foundational changes to how humanity coordinates.

CryptoEconomics? Why now?

The internet (1990s - present) changed everything in society that relies on information because
computers could now send information across a network without an intermediary. Everything
that relied upon information (media, entertainment, politics, news) changed drastically as a
result.

The internet of value (2009 - present) could change everything in society that relies on value.
Computers can now send value across a network without an intermediary. Anything that relies on
value transfer (finance, art, gaming, work, public goods funding) could change drastically as a result.

The introduction of web3-era tools like blockchains have endowed humanity with a global,
transparent, incorruptable, programmable substrate for human coordination. On _ this
coordination substrate, access is equal, the tools are available for free as open source software.
Anyone anywhere can build the next big thing. This is our moment to build a fairer, more
regenerative, financial infrastructure for the world. Our weapon of choice is novel mechanism
design deployed to decentralized blockchain networks. Our goal is to create human thriving by
solving coordination failures. No outcome is preordained - like any technology, cryptoeconomics
can be used for common good or personal gain. We must coordinate to leverage our gifts +
capitalize on this opportunity for the benefit of humanity at large.

It starts with education. This book is designed to teach the ethos & game theoretic concepts
behind regenerative cryptoeconomics to the next generation of dreamers, builders, and internet
citizens. From carbon-neutral blockchain networks to global decentralized networks to build &
fund public goods, pursuing regenerative cryptoeconomics creates high upside for humanity.

>

LS

\ =

I 2

\»y GREENPILLED

a

vy =

Regenerative CryptoEconomics

Q

GREEN PILLED

SS <

LS

\/

How Crypto Can Regenerate The World

Vv VY

Oth Edition
By Kevin Owocki, pixels by Octavian Todirut
Forewords by GitcoinDAO, Glen Weyl, Vitalik Buterin
Danny Ryan, Balaji Srinivasan, & More

Take the Green
Pill, Anon
The TLDR

Humanity is faced with global-scale coordination failures
that create systemic risks to human thriving. Our legacy
institutions are not equipped to handle these risks.

We reject the doomerism left to us by the legacy
generations & legacy institutions. We believe that Web3
is aschelling point for the hopeful & we have come
together to build a better world for our generation.
Our moment of opportunity is here. We can build a more
regenerative financial system by creating coordination
games that leverage the properties Web3 has to offer
(global, transparent, immutable, & programmable
finance).

Our weapon of choice is novel mechanism designs,
based upon sound game theory, deployed to
decentralized blockchain networks as transparent open
source code.

We aim to eclipse the more prolific & more degenerative
use cases of blockchain networks & ignite a positive
feedback loop for their regenerative use cases by green-
pilling tens of thousands of web3-native founders,
engineers, designers, and onlookers.

We are bootstraping this virtuous cycle with education. If
we collectively choose & persistently reinforce this
outcome - As hope begets more hope, and momentum
begets more momentum, regenerative cryptoeconomics
could become inevitable.
For Generation Alpha.
May you inherit a world that is better

than the one your grandparents did.
A\

»

A word from the lawyers

Not financial or tax advice. This book is strictly educational and is
not investment advice or a solicitation to buy or sell any assets or to
make any financial decisions. This book is not tax advice. Talk to
your accountant. Do your own research.

AW,

“SS

a
N

\

Table of Contents

Forewords from the Frontier

N © Fh FP W NYD F O

. Introduction ------- 20
Why ~~ --------5----- 32
Who ---------------- 42
When --------------- 62
What --------------- 82
How ---------------- 106

. Looking Forward ---- 126

. Git Involved ------ 134
Forewords from
the Frontier
BU SRA

Our vision is to establish an empowering, open and collaborative space where
individuals and communities can access resources independent of their
geographic location, education, background or offline identity.

By creating collaborative, decentralized funding mechanisms, Gitcoin has
become the natural choice for seeding and supporting public goods. The DAO
enables building for the public by the public. We help individuals and
communities start, fund, and scale open source projects.

We are the EVM whisperers, the DAO cartographers, the internet citizens, and
the chaos magicians of the internet of money. We are the schelling point for the
hopeful.

We will continue to discover new & innovative ways to solve coordination

problems in a DAO-era world. We systematically uncover or invent these
mechanisms, and if we're lucky + good, we then scale them.

We are Gitcoin.

BUILT BY THE GITCOIN
COMMUNITY

Austin Grairith

The Quadratic Freelancer

| was stuck writing closed source tools for private companies for a decade. After
learning about decentralization and falling down the rabbit hole of smart
contracts, | started learning everything | could and | made sure anything | worked
on was open source.

To be honest, | probably thought | was going to get rich building blockchain
games but it didn’t really turn out that way. Instead | fell face first into a rich
community and loving ecosystem of Ethereum builders.

| struggled to get funding in the bear market of 2018 and 2019 and was lucky
enough to be supported by Gitcoin Grants. Vitalik Buterin called what | was doing
a "Quadratic Freelancer” - someone directly working for the public, funded by
donations boosted by quadratic matching subsidies.

| earned the equivalent of a full salary building education content, tools, and

prototypes on Ethereum. Now I’m reaching a new phase of Regenerative
Cryptoeconomics where I’m streaming ETH to builders I’m mentoring!

12
Danny ryan

Proof of Stake Ethereum

Ethereum opens up a new realm of human interaction allowing for fundamental shifts
in power, value, and organization. This is why I’ve spent the majority of my waking hours
for many years working to improve the Ethereum base-layer, and this is precisely the
same reason I'm excited about Green Pilled.

The publishing of this book comes at an interesting time in Ethereum’s evolution. We
are on the cusp of the highly anticipated transition of Ethereum’s consensus
mechanism — it’s heart and soul — from Proof-of-Work to Proof-of-Stake. This upgrade
will immediately make Ethereum more secure and environmentally sustainable while
improving decentralization so that the platform is neutral and available for all
participants, across all contexts.

When evaluating a game - a system of participants, actions, and associated incentives
— we commonly assess whether it is positive sum for the immediate players, but we
often forget a key player in our assessment — the Earth, the future of humanity. Sadly,
many economic games of humanity's past and present have not traditionally
accounted for this final player, leading to profoundly negative externalities such as
climate change. To make matters worse we are rarely equipped with the tools to
understand, or better yet proactively design for, these externalities. Ethereum is slated
to become a tool to allow us to better take control of our shared future.

Energy hungry Proof-of-Work set this all in motion, opening up new massively positive
sum games, but we can do better. Proof-of-Stake is carbon neutral while
simultaneously improving security and decentralization. This has been a long-time
coming, but Ethereum is finally ready to make the shift, ensuring that the heart of the
platform complements the Green Pilled future we are architecting on top.

13
Loze Taylor

Blockchains as nations

I'm a believer in the future where blockchains/economies are effectively nations.
Not necessarily because it feels right - but it feels likely. Many people already
conceive of Ethereum as a nation, but | see it much more broken down. My hope of
course is that increasingly, folks of exploited identity groups own their own
currency & economies.

So you can imagine a world where if you want some strawberries from a sun-
soaked industry where latinx workers tend the crops, you must first purchase their
currency. You become a tourist in their nation, which is arranged around shared
interest rather than land & military powers.

There's immense benefit to this. Any turn towards justice is based on increasing
the agency of the people most closely impacted by an issue. So while a
cryptoeconomic future makes you a tourist & having to play by the cultural rules of
the true stakeholders in an issue, it also realizes lots of financial dividends for them.
When people grouped around a shared interest can be the bank, the lender, the
hedge fund, the exchange, the stock issuer & regulator, it is the shared interest
itself that benefits from the gains of all those financial activities.

14
Vitalik Buterin

The Tragedy of the Commons

The vision of collaborative decentralization that guided the original spirit of
blockchains like Bitcoin and Ethereum is a compelling and powerful one, but it is
also an incomplete one. Blockchains and cryptocurrencies by themselves are
designed to support cooperation through private property and markets - tools that
works best for one-to-one interactions. Much of what is great about the internet,
however, is one-to-many: the very software that blockchains run on, and the
academic research and math that makes them work, was written once, and all of
humanity can benefit.

Such "public goods” are vulnerable to the tragedy of the commons: because
they're available to anyone, including you, regardless of whether or not you
personally contribute, it’s difficult to motivate people to contribute to them,
especially if far more lucrative money-making opportunities are sitting around the
corner. Building and sustaining such large-scale public goods well requires new
economic models, and even a new culture. Kevin & GitcoinDAO has been at the
forefront of thinking through these challenges, and actively deploying and iterating
on new ways to bring democratic public goods funding, on the internet and beyond,
to life.

15
Balaji Srinivasan

Cryupto-Civilization
Crypto-anarchy sounds cool, but what we actually want is crypto-civilization.

This means having two opposing ideas in mind: that many existing institutions are
beyond repair, and that we need new and trustworthy institutions. That’s a
combination of merited cynicism towards the current system and cautious
optimism towards the next one.

Said optimism should be cautious indeed. Existing systems have the implicit
wisdom of Chesterton's fence. Even when flawed, there’s often a reason they are
flawed, as public choice theory explains. Any naive approach may eventually land
us in the same pickle, with corrupt institutions characterized by utterance of good
intention and substance of bad result.

But what if we put things on-chain? What if we used all the new tools that
blockchains provide to produce public goods in an adversarial environment, where
all parties know some bad actors will try to game the system, where on-chain
actions are finally just as perceptible as digitally signed words, and where we
develop explicit metrics for positive-sum outcomes?

That’s the promise of regenerative cryptoeconomics. Like renewable energy of the
nuclear variety, it helps make crypto sustainable. It’s not zero-sum gambling, or
negative-sum hacking. It’s positive-sum wealth creation. And it’s the win and help
win of web3.

16
Griff Green

It’s all Coordination

It’s all coordination, it always has been. Behind all the number-go-up, number-go-
down degen drama on Twitter, the Web3 Regens are steadfast, focused on
addressing the systemic root of the major issues that face humanity today: Our
failure to coordinate around public goods.

Coordination around individual wants and needs is effortless. Feedback is simple
because profit acts as a schelling point. Entrepreneurs can make a business plan,
seek investment and if they succeed, everyone involved gets predictably
rewarded. This is why we can live in such individual luxury. The coordination
required to put a cell phone in so many hands (to pick one of an infinite number of
examples) was immense and impactful, yet effortless because everyone who
contributed was rewarded along the way.

If you want to create value for society (public goods) - like building open source
libraries or stewarding our lakes, rivers and oceans, you have three options: beg,
sacrifice or both. Make a roadmap, track your impact, apply for grants, ask for
donations, if you succeed, you will get what you need to scrape by. Taxes and
donations are the dominant funding streams for satisfying our collective wants
and needs. Even though these massive funding streams should be enough to
provide abundant public goods for society, they don’t because they are difficult
to coordinate. Taxes are distributed top-down, making the feedback mechanisms
incredibly slow or non-existent. Donations are market feedback, but there is no
financial reward for success. In fact, they rely on unsustainable sacrifice from
donors, volunteers and everyone else along the way.

Web3 will change this. We are building novel coordination mechanisms to create
public goods while rewarding everyone involved. Society has the opportunity to
unleash the entrepreneurial spirit into an open landscape of economic potential.
We can create economic games that make collective value creation regenerative.
Regenerative Cryptoeconomics is Abundance Economics.

Take the green pill, anon.
17
Abbey Titcomls

A New Hope

As a domain, cryptoeconomics embodies many different alignments. Some would
say that its tendencies towards hypercapitalization and gamification are lawful evil.
Others would argue they are chaotic good. But then there are those who believe its
true good — that its inherent qualities of programmable value, permissionlessness,
and censorship resistance beget a path forward for humanity as we seek to solve
the global coordination problems that plague us.

These people see an opportunity to reconstruct the systems that control us. To use
crypto to design deeply radical socioeconomic futures, where our societal values
are not driven by extraction or accumulation, but instead by regeneration and
sustainability.

While there is much work needed to achieve these visions, designing and
maintaining positive-sum coordination games is a way towards a future of human
thriving. This book is a starting point — a quest, maybe — for those who seek to
challenge the status quo. It’s the seed that will sprout and grow to be the binding
force between us as we fight for and build towards a better future.

Regenerative CryptoEconomics is not only coordinating the redistribution of
financial capital, but social, intellectual, and cultural capital as well. In their efforts,
they’ve become the stewards & maintainers of a movement — a New Hope™ for
public goods, if you will.

18
Glen Meyl

Towards New Forms
of Governance & Democracy

| am deeply ambivalent about Web 3. Much of the space is dedicated to tearing
down social institutions that have been central to supporting the development of
complexity and protecting the vulnerable, all the vainglorious hope of replacing
them with some speculative and highly simplistic new market-driven coordination
on blockchains. Simple capitalist markets cannot either the support ambitious
technology development or decentralization people in this space aspire to, as they
can only organize scale through monopoly. If we want to escape from the trap of
building institutions intended for decentralization only to see them immediately
captured again by monopolies, we need to get beyond such simplistic thinking and
build regenerative institutions that support public goods and increasing returns
technology

Yet at its best, Web 3 can be one of the most creative and exciting places in the
world for imagining these new forms governance and democracy that can allow
people to connect, protect their common interests and build extraordinary new
social fabric beyond the constraints of geography and history. Today’s world has
global interconnections and local communities in patterns that could not have
been anticipated by the founders of today’s democratic nations and we need a new
substrate to make this kind of dynamic democratic governance possible; this is
precisely what regenerative cryptoeconomics is about. Kevin Owocki has
pioneered this space and has done a great job of capturing both its ideas and
culture in this book, one that | suspect will be a shining beacon in coming years as
the many who are both thrilled at the potential of the space and terrified by its
darker manifestations seek to find a path forward. | look forward to continuing to
work closely with him and seeing the next steps of social innovation he and the
broader regenerative Web 3 ecosystem will help imagine.

19
Chapter 0
Introduction
“My existence is not to become a minister for
a certain group, nor to broadcast government
propaganda. Instead, it is to become a
‘channel’ to allow greater combinations of

intelligence and strength to come together.”

-- Audrey Tang
What is Cryptoeconomics?

Cryptoeconomics is the use of blockchain-based incentives to design new kinds of
systems, applications, or networks.

Cryptoeconomics brings together the fields of economics, game theory, psycology,
and computer science & leverages them in the creation of decentralized
marketplaces & applications.

By focusing on the individual decision making & strategic interaction between
different participants in a digital ecosystem, and by viewing them through the
lenses of game theory + mechanism design, we can discover powerful new ways to
fund, design, develop and market applications and digital assets.

22
Study of Cryptoeconomics Systems is an inherently multidisciplinary
pursuit.

Study of Cryptoeconomics Systems is a subset of the study of other
types of systems.

Credit for these diagrams - Foundations of Cryptoeconomic
Systems - Michael Zargam et all

25
What is Regenerative Cryuptoeconomics?

This book is about cryptoeconomic systems that
1. satisfy human needs.
2. create positive externalities (& are net positive).
3. create balance (& find equilibrium).

Regenerative Cryptoeconomic systems have resisted
formalizations in the past due to the difficulty in doing so.
Where possible, we attempt to overcome this challenge by
focusing on theories of human systems that are widely
accepted, complementary, or global in scope.

That said - there are real contradictions in the emerging design space of Regenerative
CryptoEconomics. There are tradeoffs to be made & there are members of this space
that disagree with each other. We advocate a pragmatic approach that measures
results, respects nuance, & thoughtfully weighs tradeoffs.

First, Do No Harm

profoundly negative until proven otherwise.

The world is presently embroiled in a debate about the energy usage of
Proof-of-Work blockchain systems like Bitcoin. Proof of Work
apologists have presented many claims that Bitcoin uses primarily
renewable energy, but until there is independently verified evidence,
these claims shoulid be treated as spurious. The carbon impact of the
Bitcoin and other Proof-of-Work blockchains is likely both large &

Regenerative CryptoEconomics systems are systems that are net-
positive, and because of that, this book focuses on blockchain
ecosystems that consume 99.99% less energy per transaction than

Bltcoin or Proof-of-work era Ethereum.

Luckily, there are many 2nd-generation and 3rd-generation blockchains
that fit this criteria. From this foundation of near-carbon-neutrality, it is
possible to create cryptoeconomic systems that are extremely net-

positive.
24
Applied Regenerative CryptoEconomics

Regenerative Cryptoeconomics is a subset of Cryptoeconomics, which is itself is
a subset of economics, which itself is a subset of the study of social systems.

We are standing on the shoulders of giants in web3. In this sense, we are
interpreting this web3 wave of actors as more of an expression of a historically
embedded process than anything novel in itself.

For this reason, this book focuses mostly on Applied Regenerative
Cryptoeconomics and on making the subject matter understandable to a more
general audience.

In doing so, we would like to acknowledge the influences who have enabled us to
understand the design space + have inspired us in our own journey.

Influences

Projects who have inspired us along the way, in randomized order: Radicle,
DoingGud, Dev Protocol, Regen Network, BlockScience, Giveth, Commons Stack,
TEC, SourceCred, Codefund, Open Collective, MetaGame, KERNEL, Zcash Major
Grants, the MetaCartel ecosystem, Satoshi Nakamoto, CLRFund, MakerDAO,
ETHGlobal, Toucan Protocol, Kolektivo, Astral Protocol, Celo, Zcash, Curve Labs,
Bankless, Govrn, RadXChange, lHive, SporkDAO, Rainbow Rolls, Panvala, ENS,
India COVID Relief, Simona Pop, Ethereum Foundation, Deep Adaptation forum,
Collapseology, Donut Economics Lab, regenerative leadership groups, MacArthur

foundation, & many many others.

25
Resource consumption types

As we define Regenerative Cryptoeconomics around what it is, we should also
define it relative to what it is not.

Regenerative Cryptoeconomics can sometimes be resilient or sustainable, but
it can not be extractive.

a @
i 8

Z a

g g

© &

Time Time

Extractive Sustainable
The resource is depleted and the The resource availability is not
system loses capacity over time. depleted over time and the

system is steady.

a a
s :
e ©

Time
Resilient Regenerative
The system is able to recover from The resources are regenerated
a period of shock. & builds capacity sustainably,

while being resilient to shocks.

Thanks for Amentum for the inspiration for these excellent graphics: https://
medium.com/amentum/from-walled-gardens-to-community-gardens-c58aca89566a

26
The Building Block

An ImpactDAO is defined as any DAO that creates net positive
externalities to the ecosystem around it.

ImpactDAOs are the atomic building block of the Regenerative
CryptoEconomic movement.
On Energy Usage

Michael Zargarm, the Founder/CEO of BlockScience, provides this balanced
analysis of blockchain-based energy usage:

Pretty much every mode of economic production consumes energy. Our global
energy appetite is growing (and Bitcoin and more broadly proof of work
blockchains) are contributing to that increasing energy appetite. It’s true that an
increasing appetite SHOULD incentivize more green power research, development
and PRODUCTION but experience has shown our response is reactive not
proactive. That is to say we remain behind the curve — we need to be shifting off
unsustainable power sources not just onto more sustainable ones.

28

All that said, we should applaud Bitcoin miners who mine with local renewable
power by (for example) locating in regions with excess (eg, desert + solar) the same
way we treat an other economic production that is ACTUALLY successfully using
green energy. At the same time acknowledging that the overall PoW is not special
in incentivizing the behavior. It’s part of a broader trend in increasing energy
appetite so singling it out is also a bit suspect (eg Political).

We should be holding economic actors (including but not limited to miners)
accountable for their energy appetites— this means acknowledging those who do
the work to source clean power (noting that it’s still hard) but also criticizing those
who do not do that work (again true for miners but also corporations and
governments).

For those not familiar with the economics of energy transmission: moving energy,
even with high voltage lines, is lossy. So there are remote areas with high natural
energy production where excess exists but transporting it to where it’s needed is
too expensive and lossy to be feasible. That’s the power one can use to mine PoW
blockchains in good conscience.

29
Intended Audience of this Book

This book is a breadth-first tour of ways to frame cryptoeconomic systems to be
more regenerative.

The Oth edition is designed for those who already understand at a high level
what blockchains are, how smart contracts work, what DAQs are. If this book
were a university course, it would be a 401 level course. If that is not for you,
that’s okay - Welcome to the weird, wonderful & wild world of web3! Spend
some time with the numerous & great resources about these fundamentals +
come back to this resource after that.

It is possible that an inchoate next-edition of this book could be extended in
future editions:

- published in other languages

- highlight the most successful experiments

- extended to a more beginner-friendly audience

- establishing a ratings agency or methodology for regenerative projects

- published, like for real - not just self-published.

50
The Oth edition is an alpha release

After validating the idea on twitter, | YOLO wrote this book as a side project, between
December 2021 - January 2022. They say “If You're Not Embarrassed By The First
Version Of Your Product, You’ve Launched Too Late”. Ain’t that the truth!? In the
course of writing this book have made many attempts to consult other founders,
economists, & designers within (& outside) the ecosystem. But | was not able to
include everything | learned. Please excuse that | did not include your favorite idea or
DAO! Please excuse brevity, typos, clunky layout or flow, or other imperfections!

Creating the next edition will be a

multiplayer game

The Oth edition of this book was written by myself, Kevin Owocki. I’ve spent many
years thinking about, designing, and studying Regenerative Cryptoeconomics via my
work founding Gitcoin in 2017 & through the $50mm we’ve raised for building &
funding digital public goods since then.

This book represents the limited vantage point of one person. Therefore, the Oth
edition of this book is an imperfect vessel for education about Regenerative
CryptoEconomics. For the next edition(s), | envision that a diverse group of individuals
could co-create resources about the Regenerative CryptoEconomics design space.
Inviting a wider set of participants to contribute will enable us to explore the design
space in a more inclusive, more full, & more decentralized way. In order to facilitate
this:

1. This book is licensed CC BY 4.0. You may permissionlessly fork this book, make
changes, and republish them with attribution as long as proceeds go to the public
good or charitable causes.

2. If you would like to join the community of
writers and educators forming around this book,
then please scan this QR code or go to this URL:
https://t.me/+c_BxQmyxXdg2YThh

$1
Chapter 1
hy
(The Grey Pill)
“All too often, on the long road up,
young leaders become servants of what
is rather than shapers of what might

be.”

— John Gardner
The grey pill = coordination failures

Coordination failure occurs when a group of humans could achieve a desirable
outcome by working together, but fail to do so because they don’t coordinate
their decision making.

Examples of coordination failure

* Nation-states refuse to give up Nuclear Arms because they want to defend
themselves, despite the existential threat they pose to the world.

* Consumers refuse to give up fossil fuel-powered services because they want
to get around conveniently, despite the existential threat fossil fuel burning
imposes on the world.

« Users of Open Source Software consume Open Source Software because
they want to build things faster, despite the burnout that cumulative use
imposes on OSS maintainers.

* Individual cells of the human body live harmoniously pooling their resources
for the greater good of the organism; but if a cell defects from this
equilibrium, it becomes cancerous—eventually outcompeting all the other
cells and taking over the body.

* Coordination failure can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. For example, if one firm
decides a recession is imminent and fires its workers, other firms might lose
demand from the lay-offs & then respond by firing their own workers—leading
to arecession.

34
Coordination failures

are Dictatorless Dyustopias

Coordination failures are dictatorless dystopias, situations that each citizen
including the leadership hates but which nevertheless endures regardless.

From a god's-eye view of a system that has suffered a coordination failure, there
is aclear problem. But from within the system, no one actor can create change.
Every single citizen hates the system, but for lack of a good coordination
mechanism it endures.

Coordination failures are Multi-Polar Traps

A multi-polar trap works as follows:

1.
2.

3.

Individual humans want to have a secure digital infrastructure.

There is costly work to be done to develop secure open source software,
which underpins our digital infrastructure.

Since open source software is non rivalrous (my consuming it does not stop
you from consuming it) and non excludable (one cannot put clean air behind a
velvet rope and charge for it), there is no business model for the creation of
open source software.

. This means that each individual actor has a rational incentive to free ride on

the system. Why contribute back to a fund the maintenance of this software if
| already get it for free? This is the first trap: the single player trap.

. If enough actors choose to free ride, the entire system begins to bear a

burden, and if that burden increases to a point of systemic collapse, no one
gets these public goods. This is the second trap: the multiplayer trap.

. From a god's-eye perspective, the obvious solution is for everyone to do their

part to support Open Source Software—but without a coordination
mechanism that makes it rational for everyone to contribute, they do not.

55
We face global coordination failures

Climate Change is a coordination failure. As individual actors in the world
economy, we make decisions everyday to achieve our individual goals. But the
actions we take can cause carbon to be emitted, and over time, the collective
begins feel the consequences of this - through floods, fires, or increasing global
temperatures.

An underfunded & insecure digital infrastructure is a coordination failure. As
individual actors in the information ecosystem, we make decisions everyday
about what information to consume. Rarely do we think about the free & open
source software that underpins that infrastructure. Our global digital
infrastructure is not well-funded by governments, as traditional infrastructure is.
And those free & open source software providers often do not have a business
model - this creates a systemic lack of investment in maintenance of digital
infrastructure at precisely a time in which we are increasingly dependant upon it.

There’s many many more: misinformation, inadequate access to education,
inadequate access to employment, overfishing, the loss of biodiversity, are all
coordination failures.

What*’s at stake?

When your coastal property floods due to climate change, when an authoritarian
is elected to power due to misinformation, when a hospital is held hostage by
ransomware because of an insecure internet, each of these create human
suffering .

This local suffering is caused by global coordination failure. The scale of the
impact of these coordination failures is global, but the impact is local.

56
Name the enemy - Moloch

Coordination failure occurs when a group of humans could achieve a desirable
outcome by working together, but fail to do so because they don’t coordinate
their decision making. Why is it that when every single citizen hates the system,
but for lack of a good coordination mechanism it endures?

From a certain angle, it’s almost like there is an all powerful demon out there,
manipulating us to prevent our mutual success. This shared psychic
manifestation of coordination failure is Moloch - The god of human coordination
failure. Moloch is the reason why we can't have nice things. We name Moloch so
that we may fight it.

To read more about Moloch, check out this excellent essay entitled “Meditations
on Moloch”: https://slatestarcodex.com/2014/07/30/meditations-on-moloch/

Know thy enemy - Moloch

"Know thy enemy and know yourself; in a hundred battles, you will never be
defeated. When you are ignorant of the enemy but know yourself, your chances
of winning or losing are equal. If ignorant both of your enemy and of yourself, you
are sure to be defeated in every battle.” -- Sun Tzu, Art of War

The purpose of this book is to articulate the coordination failures we face, so that we
may know thy enemy. Once we know our enemy, we are more equipped to defeat it.

37
=
:
B

Sd ddy
A

Choosing to Face Moloch

As humanity globalizes, our coordination problems are become increasingly
globalized. At the same time our ability to deal with these global coordination
problems is being challenged. Our generation has inherited decaying
infrastructure, declining faith in Institutions, or Institutions that are not enabled
for web-scale nor for problems beyond their borders.

To face Moloch, we must first reject the doomerism we have inherited from our
legacy generations & legacy institutions. We need new coordination mechanisms
that are equipped to the modern, globalized, world.

We need an incorruptable coordination substrate that is truly global in nature to
solve global coordination failures. We have found one. We have discovered a
device made of pure coordination, and we choose to use that to fight
coordination failure. By fighting coordination failure, we could slay Moloch - the
god of coordination failure.

58
decentralized - cannot be
captured by anyone.

sizable - there is $2.1 trillion
in market cap in the web3
financial system.

immutable - so that if the

transparent - all code &
state is viewable’ by
everyone equally.

programmable - so it can be
used to create coordination
via novel mechanism design.

global - equally accessible

founder of a web3 protocol
turns evil, then the protocol
itself cannot change.

from anywhere in the world.

Our Weapon of Choice

Web3 is a global, immutable (incorruptable), transparent, programmable mechanism
for human resource allocation. For human coordination. Because web3 is a
foundation for coordination, Web3 is a schelling point for the hopeful. We have
gathered in the Web3 movement to build a better world. Our central organizing
principle is that dont have to live with coordination failures any longer.

Our weapon of choice is novel mechanism design deployed to decentralized
blockchain networks.

Is it possible we could slay Moloch? Yes. Is it guaranteed? No. We need to choose
it. We’d need to continuously reinforce that choice individually & build systems that

reinforce that choice systemically.

All coordination is a choice. What we choose to do when presented that choice is up
to us.

39
people acting badly

people acting badly

people acting badly people acting badly

coordination failure

Coordination Failure - The Root of Evil

We have established that a coordination failure is a system that no citizen would
choose, but for the lack of a good coordination mechanism, it endures.

This book takes the position that there aren’t many actually people born “bad” out
there. Instead, we believe that people are born good, made from 99.9% of the
same DNA as you and I, who have been shaped by the systems around them to act
poorly towards one another.

Henry David Thoreau once said “There are a thousand hacking at the branches of

evil to one who is striking at the root.” By aiming to systemically address
coordination failures, we hope to strike at the root.

40
The Degen to Regen Pipeline

The meme “Degens” came about during the Defi Summer of 2020 - a playful
adjective to describe the many many web3 enthusiasts who were yield farming on
systems with high APY’s but also (sometimes) high likelihood of failure.

Since then the Degen meme has come to mean anyone who is into web3 for
primarily short term economic return. Driven by headlines about the bull market,
thousands of enthusiasts enter web3 with the intention to make a quick buck.

| bet | could make finds starts
some money in crypto community contributing

#degen eregen

down bad joins DAO WAGMI

Anecdotally, I’ve found that many regens came into the ecosystem through this
path. Lured by the promise of better economic circumstances for themselves of
their family, they tried to enter the ecosystem to make a short term profit.

Over time, they become more enamoured by the promise of a DAO whose mission

aligns with their own value set, and their attitude & incentives shifted. They start
contributing, they start learning to manage risk & ride the volatility.

441
Chapter 2
iho
(lNho we BUIDL for)
We build for human thriving.

-- GitcoinDAO Mission Statement.
We build for human thriving

The opposite of coordination failure is coordination. To some, optimal coordination
creates thriving for a small group of elites. To us, optimal coordination creates
human thriving for many.

We are designing a regenerative internet of value to enable the thriving of a diverse
global citizenry.

Each individual on earth is a 3-dimensional human, with differing values, cultures,
ambitions, backgrounds, geographies, psychological orientations, financial
endowments, privilege levels, abilities, & physical or psycological archetypes.

While we celebrate our diversity, we also recognize our opportunity to address the

commmon needs that EVERY human has. Beyond just addressing these needs, we
aim to enable human thriving.

44
more subjective,
relative to one’s

more objective,

personality or culture
needs are similar
no matter whom

[cere \ you are.

Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs

45
We build for a “bento box” of incentives

Instead of focusing on designing systems for instant gratification (“Now Me”), we
propose that Regenerative Cryptoeconomic systems that build for human
thriving expand their design goals from gratifying “me” to gratifying “us”, and
from focusing on “now” to focusing on the “future.

The result is a bento box of design goals. Instead of designing for “now me”, we
design also for “future us”, “future me”, and “now us”.

Yancey Strickler, the founder of Kickstarter, is the author of the theory of
Bentoism. Bentoism (an acronym for BEyond Near Term Orientation) is a wider
lens for what's valuable and in our self-interest. Bentoism is the theory that self-
interest is multi-dimensional.

To learn more about Bentoism, go to the Bento Society's website at https://
bentoism.org/

46
Now Me

INVA
“Ay

Now Us

O

Future Me

NZ)
“ap

Future Us

The Bento Box

47
Me build for public goods. The
stuff we all use but don’t pay for

Cand sometimes take for granted)

fresh air / herd immunity / open source
/ public roads / flood control systems /
street lighting / open space /
lighthouses / parks / journalism /
information goods / privacy / public

beaches / public television / knowledge

48
Public Goods are non-excludable

and non-rivalrous.

Excludable

Non-Excludable

Rivalrous

Private Goods
(food, clothing, cars)

Common Goods
(fish, timber, coal)

Non-Rivalrous

Club Goods
(cinemas, private
parks)

49

Public Goods
(air, open source
software)
We build for needs
outside of the financial

One could be fooled into thinking Regenerative Cryptoeconomics is only about
finance, but it is not! Finance is a key pillar of human society, and a financial system
could be designed that acts as a channel for greater human flourishing and greater
combinations of strength & intelligence to come together.

To do that, there are design criteria that must be defined beyond just the financial.
The eight-circuit model of consciousness is a hypothesis by Timothy Leary, that

suggests eight circuits of human consciousness and twenty-four stages of
neurological evolution.

The 8 Circuits of Consciousness

50
The Eight Forms of Capital

Gregory Landua and AppleSeed Permaculture have published a great resource on
the Eight different forms of capital, of which financial capital is only one.

Here is their taxonomy for types of Capital:

Currency Complexing to...

©
Qa
ce)
rm
rr
Q
=

Influence, Relationships

Tools, Buildings, Infrastructure

Financial Instruments & Securities

Soil, Living organisms, Land, Ecosystem

Words, Images, Intelectual property

Embodied experience, Wisdom

Spiritual attainment

Community

51
We build for the cynics

To the cynics - | wrote this book for you. I’ve spent time with you, I’ve broken bread
with you, I’ve been called names by you. Sometimes, | am one of you.

* lunderstand that there is too much energy expenditure in parts of the web3
ecosystem.

* lunderstand that there are scams in web3.

+ |understand that hypercapitalism can cause harm.

* |understand & believe that some truly awful people have fallen ass-backwards
into riches because of early investments in blockchain based systems.

+ |understand that you are lacking hope.

But let’s not throw the baby out with the bathwater: there is genuine net-zero
emission innovation here that is truly helping people.

After all, if we had listened to the cynics in the late 90s who said things like “the
internet is just for porn”, we would not have the internet today.

62
We build to accelerate the good things
already happening because of webs.

In many ways, the Regenerative Cryptoeconomics movement is inchoate. But
there are a handful of good things that are already happening as a side effect of the
web3 movement:

1. There is lots of new pressure being put on big tech to reform. This market-based
pressure is complementary to (& separate from) regulatory pressure.

2. There is new pressure to invest in central bank digital currencies & other means
of creating more digital democracy.

3. There is an incredible community of talented & civic-minded individuals, and that
has opened the conversational space around new political economies.

4. Lots of money has poured into privacy tech that wouldn’t have otherwise.

5. Access to western financial instruments like the dollar in places that traditionally
would not have had access.

535
We build for The Infinite Garden

The web3 ecosystem has been described as an “Infinite Garden”

The vibrant communities of developers, entrepreneurs, artists and crypto
enthusiasts who are traversing a new economic design space, are rapidly evolving
strategies to cooperate, compete, or coexist with one another.

The boundaries between these projects is sometimes not clear - All of these
different diverse fauana are growing all over each other, each trying to create as
much success for themselves and their own ecosystem as possible.

We are in a cambrian explosion of finance, where every paradigm changing project
launch can lead to hundreds of copycats. Each project implosion can lead to
hundreds running in another direction. We are speed running the evolution of this
ecosystem until we get to the crypto-equivalent of mammals.

64
Ecological
Ceilling

The safe & just
space for humanity

Regenerative
& distributive

Foundation

We build for DONUT Economy

The donut economy framework, developed by Kate Raworth, is a way of understanding
sustainable development visually. It combines the concept of planetary boundaries
(the outer layer) with the concept of social boundaries (the inner layer). In between the
planetary boundaries & the social boundaries, there is a safe space for humanity - to
consume “just enough” resoources to meet social goals without crossing the planetary
boundaries.

There are web3 projects that are working to tokenize resources in both layers, which -
in sum - would allow markets to create the balance between the layers of the system.

55
what yqu see

ere is

We build to understand the Hyperobject

Hyperobjects are objects which have a vitality to them but you can't touch them.
Their effects may be experienced even if they cannot be necessarily touched.

A hyperobject can be an aggregation of networked individuals with the potential to
produce profound & unescapable shifts in the conditions of existence.

Web3 is a hyperobject. Many cryptoeconomic systems are hyperobjects
themselves.

56
We build for
Change of Self & Change of System

When designing coordination mechanisms one should be aware of the delicate
(and sometimes complicated) interplay between the systems being designed and
the actors who will inhabit those systems.

In 2017, during the ICO boom, there was an overemphasis on “change of system” -
thousands of token designers took Charlie Mungers famous quote “Show Me the
Incentive and I'll Show You the Outcome” literally, and assumed if you took a human
+ you put in a token, you get out an outcome. Turns out, human beings don’t work
that way. This is an example of an overemphasis on “Change of System”.

Conversely, it is possible to overemphasize “Change of Self”. Ina system with 100s
or millions of actors, Change of Self can be a powerful agent of change - but it can
also be a drop in the ocean.

This book advocates a balanced approach - it would be prudent for mechanism

designers of Regenerative Cryptoeconomics to design their systems around
individuals.

57
Ne build for a diverse tapestry of values

One interesting opportunity in web3 is to allow different communities to come up
with their own currencies that reflect their own local values. By allowing
communities to participate in value system creation, we allow them to articulate
what is important to them.

The larger a currency may be, the more it reflects global or commodified values.
The smaller it is, the more it reflects local values. The end result of an internet of
all these local community currencies is like a tapestry of different value systems -
Each tapestry weaves the different socio/cultural/economic and ecological
games / norms / crypto economic primitives into a tapestry which represents the
diversity & breadth of human value systems today.

This journey leads us from the more objective, international sources of trust, to
the more subjective and local. From the cryptographically verifiable energy
expenditure in a remote data center that is today’s Proof-of-Work, to the
communally verifiable delivery of life sustaining care work that is tomorrow's
Proof-of-Care and Proof-of-Plant and Proof-of-Open-Source-Contribution.

58
Game B

We build for Game B

“Game B is a memetic tag that aggregates a myriad of visions, projects and
experiments that model potential future civilisational forms.

The flag on the hill for Game B is an anti-fragile, scalable, increasingly omni-win-
win civilisation. This is distinct from our current rivalrous Game A civilisation that
is replete with destructive externalities and power asymmetries that produce
existential risk.

Yet Game B is not a prescriptive ideology (or an ideology at all): while the eyes of
Game B players may be fixed on the same flag, the hills are multitudes and the
flag sits atop each, and no player individually is equipped to map a route in
advance.” ~Game B Wiki

To learn more about Game, B, checkout the Game B wiki at https://
www.gameb.wiki/i

59
Al

a ===

Ne build for the homesteaders

of the Metaverse

In 2021, the Metaverse has become a hot buzzword - meaning many things to
many people. To us, the Metaverse is a world increasingly intermediated by the
digital.

In web 2, there are no digital property rights. We were all serfs on Facebook or
Twitter or Googles land. In the web3 metaverse, the hope is that there is true
ownership of the digital by the individuals who inhabit it.

How does the web3 metaverse get built without the massive warchests that the
tech giants use to subsidize the buildouts of their metaverses?

Regenerative Cryptoeconomics at scale would ensure a funding of digital
infrastructure that is not owned by any tech giant. By providing funding for the
public good to homesteaders in the metaverse, Regenerative Cryptoeconomics
will make it more likely that the web3 metaverse wins.

60
We
We
We
We
We

We

build

build
build
build
build
build

for human thriving

for a “bento box” of incentives
for public goods

for needs outside of the financial
for the cynics

to accelerate the good things already

happening because of webs.

We
We
We
We
We
We
We

build
build
build
build
build
build
build

for The Infinite Garden

for DONUT Economy

to understand the Hyperobject

for Change of Self & Change of System
for a diverse tapestry of values

for Game B

for the homesteaders of the metaverse

61
Chapter 3
llhen
(Our Moment of Opportunity)
We are called to be
architects of the future,

not its victims.

-- R. Buckminster Fuller
WebS is a Schelling Point
for the hopeful

We reject the doomerism left to us by the legacy generations & legacy
institutions. We believe that Web3 is a schelling point (a gametheoretic focal
point) for the hopeful & we have come together to build a better world around it.

Our weapon of choice is novel mechanism design deployed to decentralized
blockchain networks. By co-creating this schelling point, we will reconnect with
why we're *actually here* & accelerate the narrative of regenerative
cryptoeconomics.

64
BN

WebS is a more solid foundation

for human thriving

Web3 is a global, transparent, immutable, programmable substrate for finance.
This is our moment to build infrastructure for regenerative financial
infrastructure for the world.

The goal of this book is to document & teach the game theoretic concepts
behind regenerative cryptoeconomics.

65
AS

$2.1 Trillion

Value of the Open Source

Financial System

Cas of Jan 2022)

66
What if we could use all of this
capital for good?

The idea, from first principles:

1. There’s $2.1 trillion in market cap in blockchain based networks.
2. It’s all built on open source software (a public good).
3. We can redirect some of that capital to support the public good.

All of the money that used to go to some back office on wall st in the old financial
system will now go to Open Source Software. Given the rational need to prevent
black swan events (like hacks, unexpected downtime, etc) by supporting the
digital infrastructure beneath our digital assets, It should be possible to build an
aqueduct to financially support the most necessary public goods.

67
With programmable money, we can

program our values into our money
The idea, from first principles:

1. We value Public Goods.
2. With programmable money, we can program our values into our money.
3. We can make Public Goods sustainable financially.

With a Turing-complete smart contract programming language, programmers
can now design economic systems around their values.

This is of course a double edged sword, as value-systems can vary widely. By

aligning incentives of many participants, system designers can create economies
that externalize good as widely as possible.

68
ie can create new non-
skeumorphic use cases

of finance

The idea, from first principles:

1. The internet brought us novel uses of information services.

(For example, we now use IM, twitter, RSS, or Email more than we use the postal
system)

2. The blockchain can bring us novel uses of financial services.

3. What kinds of novel uses of finance will emerge? Which of those will be able
to fund public goods or other human thriving?

Skeuomorphism is the design concept of making items represented resemble
their real-world counterparts. The most interesting & revolutionary uses of
regenerative cryptoeconomics will be non-skeumorphic (they could not have
existed before crypteconomics did).

69
Reddit Ethereum

Friends Friends

© ©0606 e@ ©0200 e000

o eo 8 @ ©0200 e000
© © © @& @

© ° © oO © oO

© e©e°e ©0900 e020
@ @ @ @ @ 000 000
Geographic Designer LARPing
Friends Friends Friends

In the past, Trust Networks were local

In the old world, trust was oriented around relationships which were based upon
our geographic locations. On the internet, we have niche interests, and our
networks of relationships are built around them.

70
Ne can now Build Global Trust Networks

Niches are the new nation states. Each niche has its own network of
participants, and could one day have infrastructure for public good build around

these global trust networks.

Local Networks <> Global Networks

As trust begins to flow world wide, but we retain our physical presence, there will
be numerous confrontations between (and integrations between) digital/global
networks of actors + physical/local networks of actors.

71
We can build a financial system that acts
as a channel for greater human flourishing
and greater combinations of strength &
intelligence to come together.

72
No more tail wagging the dog

As humanity upgrades its infrastructure for the digital age -- the questions we
must ask are “Is the new financial system better than the old one?”

ON DOR WD BP

oo

. Is it transparent?

. Is it fair?

. ls it accessible?

. Is it captured by elites? (old elites, or new elites)

. Isitin service of the many or the few?

. Does it invest in outcomes beyond quarterly profit cycle?

. Does it reduce suffering or increase it?

. Is itin service of greater combinations of human intelligence and strength

to come together, or is it only in service of itself?

. Who is designing it and what are their incentives?

73
The Constraints Stack

Let us take a moment to articulate the constraints stack of human civilization, from
mathematics to culture,

Culture

Media

Finance

£4
Law Co
Power Structures —————
Physics ———
Mathematics —

Regenerative Cryptoeconomics traverses the stack from finance & law up.

Because cryptoeconomics can help monetize culture, media, or finance in novel
ways, it can be used to rewrite these portions of the stack to be more transparent,
immutable, credibly neutral, and global in nature.

74
Purposeful /
Authoritarian

Impulsive /
Egocentric

Magical /
Animistic

( Instinctive / )

Spiral Dynamics

Spiral Dynamics is a model of the development of individuals, organizations, and
societies, developed by Dr Ed Beck and Chris Cowen.

Spiral Dynamics describes how worldviews & value systems emerge from the
interaction of life conditions & the people in them. Each value system is neither
positive or negative, but is a response to the local environment. Each value
system may also be a response to the problems of the previous system.

The scope of Spiral Dynamics is quite broad, and is therefore beyond the purview
of this book, but there are many other excellent resources out there availabile -
including a book by Ed Beck and Chris Cowen.

75
The Four Social Revolutions

a
-D
ye
o

Hunter -Gatherer

The primary means of subsistence are wild plants &
animals. Humans are nomadic & non-hierarchical.

Agricultural

The primary means of subsistence is the cultivation of
crops. Humans settle down & become hierarchical.

Industrial

The primary means of subsistence is industry - the
mechanized manufacture of goods. Social hierchies
and division of labour become more complex.

Information

The primary means of subsistence is services or
information-services. Social hierarchies & culture
become even more complex.

76
From the Industrial => Information Age

As humanity transitions from the Industrial Age to the Information Age, we are in
for profound shifts in how society self organizes itself.

The first was the internet. The internet of information (1990s - present) changed
everything in society that relies on information because computers could now
send information across a network without an intermediary. Everything that relied
upon information (media, entertainment, politics, news) changed drastically as a
result.

The internet of value (2009 - present) could change everything in society that
relies on value. Computers can now send value across a network without an
intermediary. Anything that relies on value transfer (finance, art, gaming, work,
public goods funding) could change drastically as a result.

These shifts come at a time when there is profound mistrust in the Industrial Age
institutions that our parents & grantparents relied upon.

As_ technological evolution exponentially compounds, and our democratic
institutions evolve on a much slower timescale than the technology that is
powering the choices of citizens (or consumers) that participate in government, we
have seen massive disillusionment on behalf of individuals who feel that he system
no longer works for them.

Will democratic institutions be able to upgrade themselves to become more web-
scale and internet-native?

In this regard, many of us are following the lead of Audrey Tang - the digital
minister of Taiwan.

77
Digital Democracy in Taiwan

Audrey Tang’s first initiative was called the gOv project, and it swapped out the “o”
for a O (a zero) in the governments top level domain “gov.tw” to view more
accessible & interactive versions of these government websites. The project was
open source, which invited contributions from across the country. And the projects
were used million times per month.

Another inititaive, vTaiwain, used social media paradigms to create digital petitions.
Petitions with over 5000 signatures were brought to the premier and government
ministries to be adressed. Changes implemented through this system include
access to income tax software for non-Windows computers, and changes to
cancer treatment regulations.

Tang practices radical transparency, and all of her meetings are recorded,
transcribed, and uploaded to a public website. She also publicly responds to
questions sent through another website. Tang is a fervent believer in open data,
open governance, and civil society-government collaboration.

High Bandwidth Democracy

We are at a critical moment - when we face seemingly-insurmountable challenges
from growing economic disparity, climate change, and a global pandemic. Our
governing systems are stifled with deepening polarization & that is halting
progress.

Taiwan is seen as a model for how democracies could be upgraded for a more
digital-forward population - an important example of a more digital democracy ina
world that is turning more authoritarian.

To get involved in conversations about how to upgrade democracy for the 21st
century, we recommend checking out the RadXChange movement at https://

www.radicalxchange.org/

78
The consent of the governed

In political science, the idea of the consent of the governed is foundational. A
government's legitimacy and moral right to use its power is only justified (and
lawTul) when consented to by the people or society in which that political power is
exercised.

This is in contrast to the divine right of kings, which had historically been invoked.

One problem with the powerful web2 platforms is that they do not seek the
consent of their userbase for any of the changes that they roll out to the platform,
nor do they allow their users to exit the system without a high cost.

Regenerative cryptoeconomic systems aim to do better, by allowing users of the
system to govern the system (along with other stakeholders), and to provide the
ability to exit from the system if they disagree with changes. The ideal outcome is
that these foundational investments in the consent of the governed create
healthier communities over the long term.

79
We can go to the Quadratic Lands

The Quadratic Lands is a mythical place where we've rewritten the laws of
economics to support public goods, prevent coordination failures, and create
human thriving.

It’s a place where the distance between value creation & value capture has been
collapsed, and so people work on things that create value, instead of just those

that can capture it.

By practicing Regenerative CryptoEconomics, we can build a vessel to the
Quadratic Lands.

80
WW

We can build a more SolarPunk future

Solarpunk is an art movement that envisions how the future might look if
humanity succeeded in solving major contemporary challenges with an emphasis
on sustainability, climate change and pollution.

Solarpunk is optimistic and fundamentally “high tech” and “high life”. It
emphasizes a deep integration between, rather than separation of, technology and
the environment in addition to convivial conservation, self-sustainability, and
social inclusiveness.

By practicing Regenerative CryptoEconomics, we can build a more solarpunk
future.

81
Chapter 4
What
(Designing Coordination Games)
It’s all coordination,

and it always has been.

-- Anon
Coordination Games

Acoordination game is a type of simultaneous multiplayer game found in game
theory.

It describes the situation where a player will earn a higher payoff when they
select a coordinated path of action relative to another player’s actions.

Coordination games are built around Nash equilibria.

Nash equilibria

A nash equilibrium is a way to define an optional solution to a game involving
two or more players.

If each player has chosen a strategy & no player can increase their own
expected payoff by changing their strategy while the other players keep their
own strategies unchanged, then it can be said that set of strategy choices
constitutes a Nash equilibrium.

If a unique Nash equilibrium exists for a game, then all players can be rationally
expected to converge to the state represented by the equilibrium

It is possible for multiple nash equillibria to exist ina game. See if you can spot
the nash equilibria in the games to the right.

84
Left Right Contribute Defect

Left Contribute
Right Defect
Pure Coordination Assurance Game
Football Shopping Stag Hare
Football Stag
Shopping Hare

Battle of the Sexes Stag Hunt

How to read these boards: Each square in these games
represent the payoff for each player if that cell is
selected. The higher the score the better.

85
The Prisoners Dilemma

The Prisoners Dilemma is a category of coordination game where the incentives of
players diverge - and without a mechanism for coordination between players, a
rational player will choose their own benefit at expense of other players.

Here’s how it works: Imagine two members of a criminal organization are arrested
and imprisoned. Each prisoner has no means of communicating with the other.

Suppose the prosecutors lack sufficient evidence to convict the pair on the primary
charge, but they have enough to convict both on a secondary charge.

Simultaneously, the prosecutors offer each prisoner a bargain. Each prisoner is
given the opportunity either to betray the other by supply evidence that the other
committed the crime, or to cooperate with the other by remaining silent. The
possible outcomes are:

* If player A and player B each betray the other, each of them serves 2 years in
prison

* If player A betrays player B but player B remains silent, player A will be set free
and player B will serve 3 years in prison

* If player A remains silent but player B betrays player A, player A will serve 3 years
in prison and player B will be set free

* If player A and player B both remain silent, both of them will serve only 1 year in
prison (on the lesser charge).

As betraying the other player offers a greater reward than cooperating with them,
all purely rational self-interested prisoners without the ability to coordinate will
betray the other. Only mutual cooperation would yield greater reward - but with no
way to coordinate towards that, it is not likely to happen.

86
Prisoner’s dilemma payoff matrix

87
ZERO Sum Games

A zero-sum game is a type of game in game theory where if one party loses, the
other party wins, And visa versa.

Zero-sum games can include only 2 players or many many participants.

In financial markets, the investment mechanisms futures & options are
considered zero-sum games. This is because the contracts represent
agreements between 2 parties and, if 1 investor loses the wealth is transferred to
another investor. In a zero-sum game, it is not possible for one party to advance
its position w/o the other party suffering an equal and opposite loss.

88
Positive Sum Games

"Positive-sum" games, in game theory, are those games in which the sum of
winnings & losses is greater than zero (net positive).

Llke Zero-sum games, Positive-sum games can include just two players or many
many participants.

In positive sum games, it is possible for multiple parties (or all parties) to mutually

benefit. As Regenerative Cryptoeconomics emphasizes games that are net-
positive, it often involves designing positive sum games.

89
Private goods Public Goods
economic incentive gradient economic incentive gradient

me SSCS
IRN SSO KO OSCESH
S677 ase:
SSG 4 ", Wij
SSG

XY]

Cultural Influence
incentive gradient

In the past, incentive
systems were fragmented.

Charlie Munger once famously said "Show me the incentive and I'll show you the

outcome".

As members of the world economy, we are subjected to many different incentive
systems daily. We try to maximize our bank account balances so we can purchase
private goods. We recycle to maximize our positive impact on public goods.

90
Not Aligned

oa”, a
SSS LY HH LL)
Ss ee J,
+t We
le

Cultural Influence
incentive gradient

Public Goods
economic incentive
gradient

jae Oran
YL RRO

S .
eM ee Private goods
¢,

eeAANSS > ve .
LILLIES economic incentive
S2 =. > .
: gradient

MM,
PLx~L LO

Integrated incentive
gradient

le can create new Augmented &

Integrated Incentives Systems

Often times these incentive systems align, other times they are misaligned.

With programmable blockchain-based economic systems, there is a new
opportunity to design cryptoeconomic incentive systems to be aligned with one
another. When incentive systems are aligned, more economic agents will take the

aligned actions than before.

What if we could align the incentive systems between public, private, and common

goods to create more human thriving?

g41
Our mind’s limit: Dunbar’s number

Dunbar's number is a cognitive limit to the number of people with whom one can
maintain stable social relationships. Dunbars number was first proposed by Dr.
Robin Dunbar, who proposed that humans can only comfortably maintain 150
total stable relationships.

A stable social relationships is defined as a relationships in which an individual
knows who each person is and how each person relates to every other person.

Dunbars number has since been broken down further into:

1. 5 close friends

2. 15 super family

3. 50 clan

4. 150 tribe

Beyond these limits, stable social relationships have not been traditionally
possible.

Technology is a bicycle for the mind

Steve Jobs once famously called computers a bicycle for the mind - because
computers allowed one to become more efficient & go further in ones thinking -
similar to how a bicycle allows one to go physically further.

If computers are bicycles for our mind, do they offer more efficient thinking?
More efficient communciation? More efficient trust?

If so, it should be possible to maintain stable social relationships with a higher
number of people.

If technology could 5x the number of stable social relationships the median
human can have, how would that change the social/economic graph of the world?

92
Dunbars Number: an upper limit on your

stable social relationships

ASX
WZ
l A ae
5 415 |
I20vaoogd \,)
00000000 UU
TINA gyal
150 50
IVIZIVIWND
AMINES
IRVIIVIYA

Over
150

935
IVA
Yay

Now Now
Me Us

Wa
aI

Future Future
Me Us

Bentoism: Beyond Near Term Orientation

Yancey Strickler, the founder of Kickstarter, is the author of the theory of
Bentoism. Bentoism (an acronym for BEyond Near Term Orientation) is a wider
lense for what's valuable and what is in our self-interest. Bentoism is the theory
that self-interest is multi-dimensional.

Instead of focusing on designing systems for instant gratification (“Now Me”), we
propose that Regenerative Cryptoeconomic systems that build for human

thriving expand their design space from “me” to “us”, and from “now” to “future.

To learn more about Bentoism, go to the Bento Society’s website at https://
bentoism.org/

94
Now Me Now Us(2) Now Us(15) Now Us(150) Now Us(500) Now Us(50k)
<q Si | Kv SY | Sh
V a9 | Gy
Future Me Future Us Future Us Future Us Future Us Future Us
(Tomorrow) (2/ Tomorrow) (15/ Tomorrow) | (150/ Tomorrow) | (500 / Tomorrow)| (50k / Tomorrow)
O @ Sl | Lv SY | Sb
V uv | Gy
Future Me Future Us Future Us Future Us Future Us Future Us
(1 week) (2/1 Week) (15/1 Week) (150 /1 Week) (500 /1 Week) (50k /1 Week)
O @ Sl | Lav SY | Kb
v a9 | Gy
Future Me Future Us Future Us Future Us Future Us Future Us
(1 Month) (2/1Month) (15/1 Month) (150 /1 Month) (500/1Month) | (50k/1 Month)
res
<

Expanding The Bento Box

y &

Traditional Bento Boxes contain 4 cells: Now Me, Now Us, Future Me, Future Us.
This concept could be further extended with more granularity.

¢ “Future” could mean Tomorrow, 1 Week, 1 Month, 1 Year, 1 Decade, 1 Century,
or anything in between.

* “Us” could mean 2 people, 5 people, 15 people, 50 people, 150 people, an
entiee city, nation, or world, and everything in between.

When designing coordination games it is possible to create games that are net-
positive across this entire expanded bento box.

95
Designing for the evolution of trust
Three things to build towards:

Repeat Interactions Possible Win-Wins

Low Miscommunication

96
we \/ 4
aA /\~=

When Designing Coordination Games

To build mechanisms that are not fragile, design for mechanisms that are easier
to defend than to attack (eg cheaper to coordinate than to defect) .

Examples:

* In ETH2 Proof of Stake this principle is at work, because it is cheap to defend
the system and costly & risky to attact it.

* In our information environment, the incentives are broken. This is because
itis cheap to spread misinformation but costly to correct it. This is captured
by the old trope “A Lie Can Travel Halfway Around the World While the Truth
Is Putting On Its Shoes”.

97
— The rich get richer — The poor get poorer

Wealth

Over Time

The Matthew Effect

The Matthew Effect of accumulated advantage, is sometimes summarized by
the adage "the rich get richer and the poor get poorer”.

The concept is applicable to the cumulative advantage of economic capital - but
can also apply to matters of fame or status or other types of resources.

Because the Matthew Effect is a repeatable pattern in human social systems,
economic systems will typically consolidate in the hands of a rich elite.

98
Beating the Matthew Effect

The Matthew Effect is a fundamental law of economic systems, but that doesn’t
mean that it cannot be mitigated.

Just as the Wright brothers defied physical gravity when they invented the
airplane, we can build economic systems that counter-act the Matthew Effect.
Web3 founders can defy economic gravity (in this case, the consolidation into
the hands of the rich & the few) with thoughtful design.

By building Regenerative Cryptoeconomic systems that (1) do not externalize
harm (2) favor one-person-one-vote instead of one-token-one-vote or (3)
leverage other regenerative mechanisms, we can design to compensate against
(or fundamentally counteract) the Matthew Effect.

— The rich get richer — The poor get richer too

Wealth

Over Time

99
Public Goods are non-excludable

and non-rivalrous

Excludable Non-Excludable
Rivalrous f oe cothy Common Goods
(food, clothing, cars) | rich timber, coal)
Club Goods Public Goods
Non-Rivalrous (cinemas, private (air, open source
parks) software)

100
Free Rider Problem

If you give people the choice to support public goods or not, rationally self-
interested people without a coordination mechanism will often free ride on public
goods. If enough people free ride, the whole system collapses due to lack of
support. This is why many Regenerative Cryptoeconomic problems attempt to
solve the free rider problem.

Public Good Funding
Administration Problems

1. Administration of public goods can be high overhead.

2. Governments are not efficient vehicles to administer public goods.

3. Governments are coercive.

4. Anytime you’ve got a pot of money, you could have the capacity for corruption
in the administration of said goods.

Many Regenerative Cryptoeconomic problems attempt to solve these problems
by creating efficiency, verifiability, & scale in administering funding campaigns.

101
8 Principles for Managing A Commons

Elinor Ostrom was an American political economist whose research centered
around the governance of common resources.

Her research focused on common natural resources like fishing , timber, irrigation
water for farmland, land for grazing, but also more intangible resources, like
information.

For each of these resources, it is expensive to control and fence in consumption.
The problem with these types of resources is that may be are over-exploited, or
at least their care and/or sustainability can often by overlooked by users.

Ostrom showed that, within communities, rules or institutions can emerge to
ensure a sustainable & shared management of resources. Importantly, these
institusions were bottom up and efficient from an economical point of view

Lt 2 6

Clearly defined Congruence between Collective choice
boundaries appropriation and provision arrangements

a 6b 6

Monitoring Graduated Conflict resolution
sanctions mechanisms
Minimal recognition of Nested
rights to organize enterprises

102
On Legitimacy

Vitalik Buterin, the founder of Ethereum, describes legitimacy in one of his blog
posts:

“Legitimacy is a pattern of higher-order acceptance. An outcome in some
social context is legitimate if the people in that social context broadly accept
and play their part in enacting that outcome, and each individual person does
so because they expect everyone else to do the same.”

Legitimacy is a pattern that emerges naturally in many coordination games, and it
informs each agent in a coordination’s mental model for what they can expect
other agents to do.

The ways legitimacy is created or destroyed are:
1. Legitimacy by brute force
2. Legitimacy by continuity
3. Legitimacy by fairness
4. Legitimacy by process
5. Legitimacy by performance
6. Legitimacy by participation
7. Legitimacy by process

When designing Regenerative Cryptoeconomic systems, legitimacy is an
important design goal. For more on Legitimacy, check out Vitalik’s excellent blog
post at https://vitalik.ca/general/2021/03/23/legitimacy.html

103
INDIVIDUALISM

Individualism stresses
individual goals and the
rights of the individual
person.

Opportunity —> COLLECTIVISM
Focuses on group goals,
what is best for the
collective group, and
interpersonal

relationships

OPPORTUNITY

In the analogue financial system, its hard to fund public goods (a collectivist
favorite) without taxes (which individualists loathe).

In web3, we can design new mechanisms which fund public goods without
taxation. Since this creates an opportunity for a healthy mixture of autonomy
and interdependence, it also creates an opportunity to build cultural bridges
between individualists & collectivists.

When desiging Regenerative Cryptoeconomic mechanisms, look for expression
of individual preferences within the context of the larger community/collective.

104
Public Good DAO

Radicle $RAD
Gitcoin Grants $GTC
Ethereum Name Service $ENS
The Graph $GRT

Climate $KLIMA

O O O

Public Governance Scarce
Goods Rights Token

DAOs = Unbundled Governance
of Public Goods

In the legacy world, many public goods (if they are maintained at all) are bundled
into a handful nation-state government. In the digital world, public goods can be
unbundled into many DAOS that interoperate with one another.

Within the DAO ecosystem in 2022, many projects are beginning to emerge that
export public good.

One example is ENS, a system that supports the discoverability of actors in the

Ethereum ecosystem with a freely available public good (ENS). They have
released a scarce governance token called $ENS to govern the system.

105
Chapter 5
How
(Coordination Mechanisms)
Our weapon of choice is novel
coordination mechanisms deployed
to decentralized blockchain

networks.

-- Anon
~ | lL

Leading to Defeat

The mechanism that started it all

To understand the opportunity that web3 presents, you must understand the
breakthrough that created the opportunity that is web3.

The root problem with conventional (fiat) currency is all the trust that's required to
make it work. A central bank must be trusted not to debase the currency, each
individual bank must not lie about its balances - but the history of fiat currencies is
full of breaches of that trust.

To remove the trust inherent in the financial system, Satoshi Nakamoto, the
inventor of Bitcoin, needed to solve the Byzantine’s general problem.

The Byzantine Generals problem describes the difficulty that decentralized

systems have in agreeing on a single truth - and was a problem that plagued
monetary systems for a long time until the invention of Bitcoin.

108
C) Coordinated Attack
—— ===

A Leading to Victory

Byzantine Generals’ Problem

The game theory behind this problem is as follows: Several generals are besieging
a town called Byzantium. They have surrounded the city, but they must collectively
decide to attack. If all of the generals attack at the same time, they win. But if they
attack at different times, they lose. The messages between the generals may have
been intercepted and deceptively sent by their enemies. How can the generals
organize to solve the problem?

Bitcoin solved this game theoretic problem by using a Proof of Work mechanism to
establish a clear, objective ruleset for the blockchain. In order to add information (or
blocks), to the blockchain, a member of the network must publish proof that they
invested work into creating the block. This work imposes large costs on the
creator, and thus incentivizes them to publish honest information. Because the
rules are objective, there can be no disagreement or meddling with the information
on the Bitcoin network. The ruleset governing which transactions are valid and
which are invalid is also objective, as is the system for determining who can mint
new bitcoin

109
Funding Generation Mechanisms

Inflationary Rewards - A web3 based system can creates inflationary rewards
from its monetary supply & use those funds to support public goods. This can be
powerful if demand for the system is growing faster than inflation, but dangerous
inflationary devaluation can occur if not.

Philanthropy - the generous donation of money to good causes for altruistic
reasons - typically the desire to promote the welfare of others. Early Gitcoin
Grants Rounds were funded this way.

NFT Sales - the birth of NFTs has given art a business model, and for those with
cultural capital, the creation of cultural assets in the form of NFTs has proven to
be an effective way to raise money for the public good. Gitcoin Grants Round 9 -
11 were partially funded this way.

Sequencer Fees - The Optimism L2 network has pledged to donate 100% of
their early sequencer fees to the public good of the Ethereum network. Since
Optimism does $100k/day in sequencer fees, this has been a very successful way
of funding public goods.

Transaction Fees - Prominent DEFI Protocols have implemened fee switches
into their protocols, which if turned on, could be a power funding generation
mechanism for the public good.

110
Funding Generation Mechanisms cont’d

Data as Labour - What if we treated the consumers of the web as creators &
owners of their of data?

Web2 is funded by advertising, and web2 advertising networks like Facebook
have become hugely profitable by selling advertising. What kind of new
opportunities would it provide to fund regenerative economics to give everyday
citiens of the web the ability to route economic upside for their data?

Any other economically exothermic mechanism - Any other mechanism that’s

used in DeFi, NFTs, DAOs, or otherwise to generate protocol revenue could be
directed to public goods.

Funding Generation Mechanisms

Two Sides
of the

Same Coin

Funding Distribution Mechanisms

4411
S-

Funding Distribution Mechanisms

Quadratic Funding - a way to allocate the distribution of funds (for example,
from a government's budget, a philanthropic source, or collected directly from
participants) based on quadratic voting (defined on the next page).

Retroactive Public Goods Funding - A scheme to retroactively reward those who
have contributed to public goods based upon what a group of domain experts
vote on. The core principle behind the concept of retroactive public goods
funding is simple: it’s easier to agree on what was useful than what will be useful.

MolochDAO - A Minimum Viable DAO design that invented a “ragequit” - a means
for members to exit the DAO by exchanging their shares for a pro-rata claim on
the treasury's assets. Ecosystem participants can fund a MolochDAOs & easily
exit their funds via ragequit if they disagree w. the DAO’s decisions.

Web of Trust - The creation of a graph data structure of who trusts who, upon
which data bout who is creating the most value can be gleaned. This
intersubjective data can be used to allocate tokens. Used by CoordinAPE,
SourceCred.

Universal Basic Income - a sociopolitical financial transfer concept in which all
citizens of a given population regularly receive a legally equal financial grant
without a means test. Typically designed to give participants stable financial
footing from whicih to pursue other goals.

Aqueduct- a conduit built to transfer water. In the internet of money, aqueducts
have been set up to directly transfer 1% to projects like Gitcoin, Radicle Drips, or
the Protocol Guild. Some projects that receive aqueducts decide to pay their
revenues forward to other projects, creating a series of multi-level aqueducts.

112
Voting Mechanisms

Ranked Choice Voting- an electoral system in which voters rank candidates by
preference on their ballots.

1. If a candidate wins a majority of first-preference votes, he or she is declared
the winner.

2. If no candidate wins a majority of first-preference votes, a candidate with the
fewest first-preference votes is eliminated. First-preference votes cast for the
failed candidate are eliminated, elevating the second-preference choices
indicated on those ballots.

3. A new tally is conducted to determine whether any candidate has won a
majority of the adjusted votes.

4. The process is repeated until a candidate wins an outright majority.

Quadratic Voting - a collective decision-making procedure which involves
individuals allocating votes to express the degree of their preferences, rather
than just the direction of their preferences. By allowing the voting mecahnism to
take into account the degree of prefrences, a more optimal expression of
preferences can be achieved.

Conviction Voting offers a novel decision making process that funds proposals
based on the aggregated preference of community members, expressed
continuously. By allowing the voting mecahnism to take into account conviction,
amore optimal expression of preferences can be achieved.

113
Mechanisms cont’d

Staking - a way of putting tokens at risk in order to express conviction in a
specific thing (at an individual level) or secure a system (at a system level).
Staked funds are subject to slashing if stakers or they objects they stake upon
misbehave.

Bonding Curve - A scheme in which the price of a token is determined by its
supply. The more tokens that have been distributed, the higher the price + visa
versa. Typically used as an elegant mechanism to manage scarcity + price.

Community Inclusion Currencies (CICs) are assignable credit obligations
redeemable for goods & services. These can be issued by communities to
develop sustainable local markets when National Currencies are scarce.

Fractal DAO protocols, They make ‘subsidiarity’ easier to implement; Subsidiarity
is critical for scalable informed participatory governance. Orca, lhive Swarms are
examples.

Natural Capital backed Assets. Strictly necessary to align regnerative finance

with physical/natural world, not just social/economic world. CurveLabs and
Kolectivo (formerly CuraDAO) are piloting these.

114
Mechanisms cont’d

Multisig Wallets - Multisig wallets allow a group of n people to control the
actions of a cryptocurrency wallet if m of the n people agree on a single
transaction, on a transaction by transaction basis.

Worker co-ops - A co op is a group of workers who have united to meet their
common needs and operations through a jointly owned enterperise. Co-ops have
been around for a while, but what is new in web3 is the opportunity to allow them
to hit webscale or go global.

Data co-ops - A group organized for sharing pooled data from online consumers
between two or more companies. Within a data co op, members offer their data
to the collective - which creates an opportunity for more economic leverage for
the sale of one’s data than any individual collective member could have..

Miner Extractable Value - the maximum amount of value that can be extracted
from the block production process (in excess of the standard block rewards and
fees). Tangibly, this means that block producers can reorder transactions in order
to front-run others transactions - which in some cases can lead to a lot of profit.

115
Mechanisms cont’d

Harberger tax - a mechansim that allows an ecosystem to strike a balance
between pure private ownership & total commons ownership of a resource.

1. Citizens value their own property and pay tax on that value. A self-assessed
tax.

2. At any point in time, anyone else can buy the property from you at that price,
forcing a sale.

Lossless Lotteries - A way of running a lottery such that even if you do not win
the lottery, you get to keep the price of admission into such lottery. By allowing
users to stake funds in a lottery, and then using those funds to generate yield and
rewarding the winner of the lottery with those yields, lossless lotteries are able to
create a positive sum way of generating funds for winners (but without taking
funds from the losers).

116
Unsolved Problems & Opportunities

Money Legos - Composability is the interoperability of different pieces of the
internet of money such that they could be assembled like legos. Each new money
lego is a freely available public good for any builder to use - creating an
opportunity for each net-new builder in the space to “stand on the shoulders of
giants”. It’s what creates the conditions that allow for the creation of
exponentially more unique combinations of mechanisms over time.

Moving beyond 1:1 coin voting is an opportunity to create more cartel-resistant
forms of governance. There are inequalities and incentive misalignments even in
the absence of attackers (these systems can be dominated by the rich &
powerful), and (outright attacks through various forms of (often obfuscated) vote
buying in 1:1 coin voting systems.

Closing the gap between value creation & value capture remains a huge
opportunity for funding public goods. The more people can worry about value
creation & less they worry about value capture from business models, the more
they are focusing on the public good. Mechanisms that measure value creation &
reward participants for that value creation are possible with more objective (or
intersubjective) measurement of value creation.

117
Unsolved Problems & Opportunities cont’d

Decentralized Reputation Systems - Because so much value transfer in the world
depends on the reputation of the parties in the transaction, it could be argued that
Identity is an important part of the internet of value.

* When | get ajob, | want to know who | am working with.

* When | loan someone money, | want to know their history of repayments.

* When | invest in a company, | want to know the founder's reputation to
understand their character.

* When | get into an Uber, | want to know that my driver’s reputation is free of
major incidents.

* When | log in to my social feed, | want to know the credibility of the content/
authors | see.

Proof of Personhood - If we could find a cryptoeconomic way to prove unique
human-ness, we could move the internet of finance from “one token one vote” to
“one human one vote” and unleash a wave of digital democracy. With proof of
personhood, the ecosystem could move to DAOs built on one-human-one-vote.
This unlocks use cases like:

1. quadratic funding

2. one-person-one-vote or quadratic voting DAOs

3. Gini coefficient measurements

4. UBI
+ other use cases we havent discovered yet!

118
Unsolved Problems & Opportunities cont’d

Privacy! Privacy! Privacy! - To prevent many dystopian outcomes, Privacy must
be baked in to these mechanisms from the start.

The old world model of privacy is broken. The new world privacy model will be
built around zero knowledge proofs, eg you will be able to prove attributes about
yourself without revealing any more personal information about yourselves.

Persistent Pseudonomous Identities will be a thing -- People will need practical
ways to let people build deep long standing reputations without practically
doxxing their real world identities. Organically, ETH addresses with long complex
history of transactions, NFTs and ENS are nice but its time frame, frequency and
diversity transactions that are hard to fake / duplicate.

Other unsolved problems may exist, especially in systems with:
* High wealth inequality
* High levles of plutocracy or collusion
* High energy Inefficiency (In some networks)
* High misinformation & tribalism or dependance on Web2 Social Media
* Highly extractive economics
* Lack of education
* Lack of access
* Lack of diversity

119
\ Vb

~S

4°

Unsolved Problems & Opportunities cont’d

Zz
S

ImpactDAO Ratings DAO - ImpactDAQs are the atomic unit of the Regenerative
CryptoEconomics movement. The positive externalities produced by each
ImpactDAO, when stacked upon each other, will hopefuly create an entire
Regenerative CryptoEconomics stack.

But how are we to know which ImpactDAOs are truly having impact and which are
just marketing? “don’t trust, verify” is a mantra among cryptographers, how can
we apply this to the growing field of ImpactDAOs?

Having an ImpactDAO Ratings DAO, which catalogued the positive and negative
externalities of each ImpactDAO, would be an import piece of infrastructure
(provided that it is governed in a transparent & credibly neutral way, to gain the
legitimacy needed to be seen as impartial)

120
Starting small with healthy culture

It would be possible to overemphasize to creation of an academically perfect
system, and in doing so, forget about the cultural & memetic needs of a community.

Starting with small pods of culture that are themselves healthy is a must. As a
founder, your actions inform the actions of the first 5 people in your project. Those
5 inform the next 20, which informs the next 100, and so on.

Peter Pan, the founder of MetaCartel, one of the most prominent & first DAOs in
web3, is a shining example of this. He formed MetaCartel as a series of “pods” with
their own individual culture, vibes, and mission. Metacartel is not a single monolithic
group. Each pod had its own mission, goals, and focus and tightly curated culture.
They each started small + only grew when they were ready. Once they grew, they
retroactive gave away governance rights based upon the values they had set early.

121
Meta-patterns

Here are a few meta-patterns you will find across different regenerative
cryptoeconomic systems:

- pluralism: skin to biodiversity. The more pluralism there is across an ecosystem,
this creates more antifragility as it grows.

- expressivity: eg the collection of primitives available should be reach enough to
allow actors to express organizations we've not thought of yet.

- simplicity/legibility: individual primitives should be relatively simple, you can
combine them into more complex assemblages.

- standardization: a sufficiently large library of legible primitives that you can
almost always find a known simple/legible component that meets your needs, will
accelerate innovation.

- modularity/composibility: this comes pretty naturally from simplicity and
standardization, and assuming you collection of primitives is sufficiently expressive
you can create assemblages that do just about anything.

- symmetry between value creation & value capture - when the value creation

of asystem is disconnected from the value capture, there will be an inherent
misalignment between the incentives of actors in the system to focus on the capture
of value instead of the creation of it. Therefore regenerative cryptoeconomic
systems aim for symmetry between value creation & value capture.

122
Robust Signal Emission

An alternative to governance via voting (which has historically had issues with
plutocracy and low voter turnout) is robust signal emission.

The measurement of value creation via robust signal creation is a powerful way
to allocate funds to an ecosystem of participants at scale.

By measuring what communities of participants within an ecosystem value, an
intersubjective consensus of the value creation from that ecosystem is created.
This intersubjetive consensus can form the basis of a distribution of retroactive
tokenized rewards.

CoordinAPE Gift Circle for The economic graph of
BanklessDAO Season 1 Gitcoin Grants Round 11

123
Robust Signal Generation

Of course, in order to create a robust set of signals, one needs to have an active
ecosystem of participants.

To that end, there are a number of engagement hacking techniques that were
pioneered in the web2 days, which also work in the web3 space.

While they are not regenerative in nature themselves, they can be assmebled
into regenerative cryptoeconomic systems wherein their data emissions can be
analyzed for regenerative purposes, and we include them on this basis.

User Engagement Feedback Loop

Widely articulated by Pintrest, this articulation of a feedback loop of user
engagement is designed to keep users engaged by triggering their interest to
perform some action, for when they are given a reward + are prompted to make
further investment of time or other resources.

External Trigger: Interesting
Facebook, Twitter objects

Re-pin, follow,
comment

Scroll

124
Balancing
Challenge + Skill

When onboarding users into a system,
cryptoeconomic or otherwise, be careful to
balance between challenge and skill. Too
far to one side, and the user gets bored.
Too far to another, and they get frustrated.

Challenge Level

Skill Level

Cheap but
powerful

Reward Types

As users become more immersed in
systems, cryptoeconomic or otherwise,
different types of rewards can be
deployed at differnt times in the funnel.

Costly
and weak

125
Chapter 6
Looking Forward
(Civilizational Scale
Regenerative CryptoEconomics)
As humanity transitions from the
industrial age to the information
age, our old institutions are

decaying.

In this overton window, we have a
once in a lifetime opportunity to
build new, better, fairer

institutions.

-- Anon
What is an ImpactDAO?

A DAO is a Decentralized Autonomous Organization; some DAOs are like global
companies. Some are protocols. All of them use blockchains as a trust anchor.

An ImpactDAO is any DAO that creates positive externalities for the ecosystem
in which it resides.

ImpactDAOs are the scalable building block of a more regenerative economic
infrastructure.

128
Examples of ImpactDAOs

CirclesUBI

Positive Externality:
UBI for members

KlimaDAO

Positive Externality:
Positive Price Pressure
on Carbon Credits

One powerful attribute of clusters of ImpactDAQs is how the positive
externalities flow between them. For example, Sybil Resistance flows
from Proof of Humanity into GitcoinDAO, which in turn has funded
projects in the Proof of Humanity Ecosystem, including KlimaDAO.

129
Two Ingredients for an ImpactDAO:
Mechanism & Funding Source

130
ImpactDAOs can vary in mechanism

& funding source

ImpactDAOQ Mechanism Funding Source

The diversity in the mechanisms & funding sources for ImpactDAOs creates a
pluralism (and anti-fragility) in the way public goods are funded.

1351
The Big Idea

1. Build a parallel opt-in system for funding digital native public goods, which
operates at greater efficiency at a greater scale.

2. This parallel opt-in system could increasingly support non digital public goods.

3. AS more people quit their private jobs to work on public good, energy in one
public good seeps into another, a sense of 21st century native civic pride
emerges, momentum compounds outwards in a virtuous cycle of growth.

4. More global public goods get funded. Over decades, economies &
democracies all over the world get upgraded be higher bandwidth for the digital
age, creating more human thriving.

1352
ImpactDAOs can stack

Each ImpactDAO benefits from all the
stacked ImpactDAOs supporting their
work.

Each ImpactDAO benefits when
public goods below them in the stack
are funded.

Scalability: ImpactDAO stacking is how growth compounds, momentum builds, and
regenerative cryptoeconomics eventually becomes inevitable.

Pluralism: Because each ImpactDAO can have a different mechanism or funding
source, this leads to a more pluralistic public goods funding infrastructure.

133
Chapter 7
Git Involved
All coordination is a choice.

We have to choose the future we
want in the day to day choices we
make - not only in the types of
assets we buy, but also in where we

put our scarce time, attention, and
skills.

-- Anon
Contribute to the next
edition of this book

If you would like to join the community of writers and educators forming
around this book, then please scan this QR code or go to this URL:

https://tme/+c_BxQmyxXdg2YThh

136
Take the Green Pill
Yourself

Pledge to support public goods @

greenpill.party

137
Join the fight against Moloch

Join GitcoinDAO

Learn more about what the DAO has been up to at

gitcoindao.com

138
Join the Funders League

Thank you to the following organizations & people who have made the work that
GitcoinDAO has done possible with their generous financial contributions:

Ethereum Foundation / ENS / Optimism / NounsDAO / Chainlink / Synthetix /
momus.eth / Balancer / Badger / Uniswap / Polygon / Kraken / Yearn / VitaDAO /
GreatestLARP / Aragon / Moonshot Bots / Binance / EPNS / CMS Holdings /
Stakefish / DefianceCapital & Three Arrows Capital / Mask / Oxeffalt / Regen
Network / Rainbow Rolls / KlimaDAO / Fire Eyes / Future Fund / Harvest Finance /
Ocelot (Celo) / Dora Hacks / Sushi / Stefan George / YAM Finance / Mariano Conti /
Dora Hacks / Robert Leshner / Stefan George / Andrew Keys / Mariano Conti / 1kx /
banteg / Aztec / Robert Leshner / Integral Finance

Learn more about how you can financially
support public goods on Gitcoin @

https: //gitcoin.co/grants/12/
gitcoin-grants -official -matching-pool - fund

139
\i/
WW

= 8—
Zi / i \ \

IT*S ALL
COORDINATION
An inchoate virtous cycle

All coordination is a choice. To win this coordination game, we need to choose to
coordinate to make this into a multiplayer game. Once the multiplayer game is
bootstrapped, we need to choose coordinate to win it. Once we win it, we must
coordinate to maintain its legitimacy.

We do these things not for their own sake, but as a means to create human
thriving. If we collectively all take the green pill, we create a more solarpunk
world. If we collectively do not, we continue to maintain the status quo.
Regenerative CryptoEconomics is here, it’s important, and it’s happening. But it
is also inchoate. To grow, it needs you.

The overton window is open. Join the movement. Do what your skills & abilities
uniquely enable you to do. Spread the word. Build something. Learn from your
mistakes, & throw it out & build something else. Host a meetup. Be honest about
where we're winning & also where we fall short. Do what feels right to you. Do
your own research. Beware any charistmatic leader who claims to have all the
answers (including me). The leader is the person who knows what to do next.

And whatever you do, remember to coordinate.

- @owocki 2 -
144

