O
Why a book on ImpactDAOs? Why now?

The community around the book GreenPilled - How Crypto Can Regenerate the
World (available at https://greenpill.party) has envisioned that web3 has the
potential to regenerate the world. With the GreenPilled book, we have
established a digestible source of a priori knowledge (theoretical knowledge) of
how we might use a transparent, immutable, global, and programmable financial
system with $2 trillion worth of capital to regenerate the world. This capital could
build a digital commons, create flourishing digital democracies, and support both
local & global public goods. A priori knowledge is great, but what has been
missing from the conversation thus far is empirical knowledge (knowledge
obtained from observation) of how crypto can regenerate the world. That’s
where this book, and the projects within it, comes in.

ImpactDAOs are any web3 project that is using crypto to create positive
externalities for the world. This book is a cartography project, designed to map
these ImpactDAOs & the territory between them. There are dozens of examples
of successful ImpactDAOs in the world today, & hundreds more inchoate
ImpactDAQs. We articulate their value propositions, techniques, and provide a
map to help members of the web3 ecosystem who are working on regenerative
crypto to find each other.

If the GreenPilled book is theory, this book is its complement - this book is about
action. Theory without action is impotence. Action without theory is
directionless. But together, theory and action present a powerful schelling point
for web3 regenerating the world. We invite you to learn about the world of
ImpactDAQs, the foundational atomic building block of an emergent,
regenerative, peer to peer, pluralistic civilizational scale infrastructure for funding
public goods. Public goods are good!

O
KEVIN OWOCKI, ALEJANDRA BORDA, C

GITCOINDAO PUBLIC GOODS FUNDING WORKSTREAM

~ IMPACTDAOs

( ie
BBWVWVWVWWVWVWVWVWVWVWxX
BBWVWVWVWWVWVVWVWVVr
BWWVWVWVWWVWVVVWVVWr
BBWVVWVWWVWVWVVWVWVr
BWWVWVWVWWWVWVVVVr
BBWBVWVWVWWVWVWVVVVr
BBWBVWVWVWWVWVW—VVVVr
BWBWBVWVWWWVWVWVVVVr
Introduction ---------------------- 04

Featured ImpactDAOs --------------- 24
ImpactDAOs Stacks -—~ -------------- 42
Regen Economies ------------------- 50
ReFi ------------------------------ 56

Coordination, Tooling,

and Infrastructure -— ------------ 70
Applied Research ------------------ 80
Commons Pools --------------------- 90
Culture and Education ------------ 96
DeSci ----------------------- ne 106
Introduction
ImpactDAOs are the atomic building blocks

of regenerative cryptoeconomics.
ImpactDAOs - The Building Block

An ImpactDAO is defined as any DAO that creates net positive
externalities to the ecosystem around it.

ImpactDAOs are the atomic building block of the Regenerative
Cryptoeconomic movement. This book is about ImpactDAQs.

To learn more about the Regenerative Cyryptoeconomic movement,
check out the Green Pill book & podcast at https://greenpill.party.

06
Regenerative CryptoEconomics

In aregenerative system, resources are increased over
time. An antifragile regenerative system builds
capacity sustainably, while being resilient to shocks.

Resource Available

Time

Not just about Financial Resources

Aregenerative Cryptoeconomic infrastructure is about more that just financial
capital.

Gregory Landua and AppleSeed Permaculture have published a great resource on
the 8 different forms of capital, of which financial capital is only one. Here is their
taxonomy of types of capital:

Capital Currency Complexing to...

Influence, Relationships

Tools, Buildings, Infrastructure

Financial Instruments & Securities

Soil, Living organisms, Land, Ecosystem

Words, Images, Intelectual property

Embodied experience, Wisdom

Spiritual attainment

Community

07
Why do we care about ImpactDAOs?

Web3 has the potential to scale our internal and collective ability for human and
capital coordination. We can now redefine incentives towards actions that
regenerate ourselves and the earth. But, are we tapping into that full potential?

We are only able to do so if we move past our present paradigms of how we
experience and coordinate as human beings, and if we start focusing all our
energies in building and leveraging these building blocks for real positive impact.

We see web3 as a tool within a broader shift in consciousness, away from
command & control hierarchies into an abundant, agile, and positive-sum future
Technology in all its forms -- science, communication, blockchain, meditation,
networks, fasting, etc--should be used to enhance our human abilities to become
better versions of ourselves... Technology unlocks a realization that we are not
tied to the systems of the past-- we have agency to design for human thriving.

The design space for ImpactDAQs is this: How do we leave the old ways behind
to create new systems for human thriving?

08
Design for Human Thriving

Digital tokens are more secure, convenient to store, and easier to transfer/
distribute. How we choose to transfer tokens is based on the conditions we
choose. We can embed our values into digital assets, explore a plurality of ways
to transact and share value, align individuals with collective incentives, and
unlock the freedom to dedicate our time to meaningful work.

ImpactDAOS can consciously design our coordination mechanisms that drive our
society, which means we can design our external reality. We have an open canvas,
a new playground open to everyone. We hope to see designers use this canvas to
ensure the health of our planet and people. We believe ideas should be at the
core of our economic systems.

Tools can also do harm. Finance can serve to enrich human flourishing or to
cripple it. Those creating should be conscious of the role we play to shape this
technology. What we build will shape the future of the society we live in.
ImpactDAQOs can be a tool to shape web3 as a major driver for positive impact.

69
The Internet of Values (and Value)

Throwing more technology or money into broken systems will likely create no
change unless we coordinate these networks to redefine how we operate as
humans. Money magnifies. We have long been pushing money into the system,
and it seems like the only thing growing is the amount of capital we need to solve
these same problems.

ImpactDAOS can engineer better carbon removal methods, but we will endlessly
continue to sequester carbon from the atmosphere unless we redesign our
extractive monetary system that is fueling pollution, and unless we reorganize
the economy to better align with the natural world.

We can move away from fixing systems into building new thriving systems
primed for human flourishing. Although it would be great to solely focus on
creating, we have pulled society so far away from balance that we might need to
engage in parallel efforts: solving urgent problems while building the base
infrastructure for new thriving systems that render the old obsolete. Once we fix
current issues, energy can naturally transition to create value in regenerative

systems.
410
Ecosystem Awareness

With the arrival of web3, we are experiencing a fundamental shift in how we
relate to each other on a global scale. We can move to an ecosystem awareness
of all the moving factors across a system to identify patterns and connect
seemingly unrelated dots.

ImpactDAOS that focus on the highest leverage points that we can shift act just
like acupuncture points—creating rippling effects on the entire system.

In addition to seeking high leverage points, we can also analyze the tensions in
the system. How do we navigate them?

We move beyond solving the most obvious symptoms and start tackling the
underlying factors that create those symptoms in the first place. We can design
primitives that leapfrog the “fixing” to redesign our connection with ourselves,
each other and technology

11
The Internet of Regeneration

ImpatDAQs are redefining what we value and how we share that value. The work
here calls for regenerating our internal selves, our experience with others, our
connection to nature, and our meaning of wealth to one where we focus our
energy on that which fuels each person internallly to then improve the world.

Although boundaries allow us to study and understand the dynamics of
interconnected systems, boundaries are, in reality, only in our minds. Everything is
interconnected.

For example, our gut health affects our metabolic health, cognitive ability, and the
risk of chronic disease. The microbiome diversity of the soil in which it's grown
directly impacts our gut. Economic incentives enable or prevent farmers from
implementing regenerative agriculture, which increases the CO2 in the soil and
hence it’s microbiome diversity. The soil’s miicrobiome affects the nutrients in
our food and therefore our health.

12
Shifting Approaches

In this book, we will showcase how ImpactDAOs emphasize collaboration, co-
creation and sharing best approaches, learnings and insights others can leverage
for a continously evolving ecosystem. We also move away from hierarchy,
everybody should be at the table to imagine and discuss approaches as equal
parties in the design of our futures.

Building with or enabling access and education for everyone to use new tools, we
can decentralize the innovation process away from helping into empowering. It's
not one organization or person's role or responsibility to drive change, each
network can innovate using their expertise to change their circumstance.

We have an active role in designing, architecting, experimenting, and stewarding
collective pieces of a powerful, but intentional, engine for change. ImpactDAOs
are at the core of that change, leveraging web3 to create the regenerative
society, and securing web3 as an enabling way for us to create a better future.

13
The current state of ImpactDAOs

The present reality might not reflect the vision we just shared, but ImpactDAOs
are still emerging. We hope to help catalyze the energy and cultivate action that
can take us there (or perhaps to a better future than what we were able to
envision).

ImpactDAOQs are still nascent with a lot more design space to explore. This book
is a snapshot of the current state of ImpactDAQOs, showcasing how organizations
are using web3 for impact as of April 2022.

Hopefully, this acts as a schelling point (a game theoretic focal point) to rally the
community to further explore how crypto can regenerate the world, and then to
go put those discoveries into action. We hope to welcome new thinkers
indigenous knowledge, entrepreneurs, philosophers, healers, scientists, so we
can all make sense of the world. We want to capture more stories of how web3
(or other technology) has positively changed real lives in future book iterations.

14
The ImpactDAO ecosystem

Symbiotic— web3 is naturally interoperable as each effort unlocks greater
value for other nodes in the network. We can modularly stack ImpactDAQs so
talent, energy, and resources can fluidly move to where it is most needed.

* Composable—anyone can leverage and build on top of open-sourced building
blocks for an evolving improving set of tools and strategies.

* Collaborative—we can align incentives for a multiplayer game. It is no longer
about the winning strategy, but rather the health of the whole ecosystem,
building our collective intelligence and capacity to do good.

* Transparent—although still nascent, we can leverage the on-chain, immutable
records for accurate impact measurements to continue funding what works
and leave behind what does not.

* Emergent - in the process of coming into being, driven by 1000s of actors

across the ecosystem.

15
Methodology

ImpactDAO is the term we use for organizations leveraging web3 to create
positive externalities in the world.

Most operate as a DAO or with web3 principles for open, transparent, verifiable
impact and regenerating our earth. The ImpactDAQs presented in this book
combine the survey form we shared during our writing process + Ale’s Notion list
that she has been compiling and categorizing since December + cross-
comparing with many other great project lists out there. When possible, we’ve
included verifiable on-chain data for the progress achieved by these.

How did we choose which projects to feature? We focused on ImpactDAOs who
have achieved substantial positive impact or have proven their model has the
potential to do so in a way we could verify. The featured ImpactDAOs in Chapter
One are ImpactDAOs that we could objectively verify that their strategy has
created tangible positive externalities.

Criteria:

1, Positive externalities: ImpactDAOs that demonstrate a sustainable long-term
strategy to achieve positive outcomes on their primary impact area that
would have otherwise not been possible without a novel use of web3.

2. Ecosystem value: ImpactDAOs that act as building blocks to enable other
ImpactDAQs to leverage or build on top of them to achieve a greater impact
(e.g. PoH Sybil-proof list of humans other ImpactDAOs can use for
governance, proof of identity, etc).

3. Leverage point: ImpactDAOs that intervene at a critical place within the
system and that cause rippling effects in the whole system by redesigning
core mechanisms of society-causing-problems, not merely redistributing
donations or band-aid solutions.

16
The 2nd set of ImpactDAQs is categorized by the role within the web3
ecosystem that each plays and further subdivided by the type of social capital
they enable. These ImpactDAOs have also proven a robust web3 mechanism that
works towards achieving positive externalities.

The 3rd set of ImpactDAQs are rallying up to achieve positive externalities but
are nascent. We couldn’t tangibly verify their approach has achieved positive
outcomes. These have a “Not Launched" tag. Yet, we’re excited to see them grow!

To explain the work and impact of each ImpactDAO, we combined self-reported
data with information available through websites, articles, etc. Additionally, for
many of these (around 30 of the projects), we interviewed core teams members
and/or people who interact with their platforms (e.g. users who implemented
Coordinape to their reward stack for DAO contributors).

Things to keep in mind as you read
this book.

Feedback welcome - To give feedback on this methodology or propose changes,
please see the “Git Involved” section at the end of this book.

Cross-pollination welcome - As we describe how ImpactDAQOs leverage web3 to
regenerate the earth + create human thriving, we encourage you to actively think
about how each strategy can build upon the other, synergize, or collaborate.

Contributors welcome - We hope to see this book used as a resource to route
talent to ImpactDAOS. Hopefully we see a feedback loop where people discover
ImpactDAQs via this resource, which makes the ImpactDAOs have more
momentum, allowing the cycle to repeat.

17
Intended Audience

This book is a breadth-first tour of ImpactDAOs - cryptoeconomic systems that
have a positive impact on the world.

This first edition is designed for those who already understand at a high level
what blockchains are, how smart contracts work, what DAOs are. If this book
were a university course, it would be a 401 level course. If that is not for you,
that’s okay - Welcome to the weird, wonderful, & wild world of web3! Spend
some time with the numerous & great resources about these fundamentals +
come back to this resource after that. Perhaps a future edition will attempt to
make this content more beginner friendly.

This edition is designed for

1, those who are entering the web3 space who want to find ImpactDAOs they
could work with.

2. for those who work on ImpactDAQs. By seeing what techniques other
ImpactDAQs are using, we hope that this book (and the resources surrounding
it) faciltates the cross-pollination of relationships, knowledge, and other
resources across DAOs.

18
ImpactDAO Map

On the next several pages, we have put together a couple visual overviews of
how we view the ecosystem.

To understand the world of ImpactDAQs, we can classify these through: a) the
role they play within the web3 ecosystem; and b) the form of capital they each
impact in our living world.

The first map highlights the Impact DAOs play as enablers, connectors and those
tackling specific impact areas. ImpactDAOs growing the roots act as enablers
that engineer the infrastructure for other ImpactDAQOs to build on top off. The
trunk connects these building blocks to impact areas by researching and
implementing tools and frameworks ImpactDAQOs can apply to their strategy.
ImpactDAQOs which build primarily within one impact area represent each leaf of
the tree. Although these explore different Impact areas, they are complementary
and interdependent, therefore part of the same tree. Finally, all ImpactDAOs
advance to various forms of capital, as represented above the tree.

The second map is like looking from above and peeking through this tree. We
can now see the roots and trunk within the inner circle as the infrastructure and
research layer that enables all other ImpactDAOs to operate, improve and
achieve impact (e.g. providing tokenomics, governance, research on natural
capital assets, infrastructure, etc).

The middle circle shows the impact areas previously shown as leaves. These are
spread across the map to show the forms of capital they primarily influence.
Although many projects impact multiple forms of capital, we tried to map the
ImpactDAOS to show the two most prevalent areas of a living system they affect.
E.g. regenerative finance involves both living and financial capital, but some
ImpactDAOs like Regen Network are closer to living systems, while Toucan
primarily focuses on the financial infrastructure.

19
07 LLEANANNSS

8 Forms
of Capital

o — ors a8 E=—— a
Qy piwing pe
ReFi
°
Climate o
Collective ee
Carbon
OMoss
°
a a Regen ONori a ao
ZA a Network O Toucan 4&7
Oa Applied O Kolektivo
Research
ro) fe) ° (eo)
O Molecule Ocean Curve Astral Grassroots
Protocol ©. Labs Protocol Econ
O.Opsci.eth Other o) fe}
q ee ° Internet 0 Celo Bloom Impact
N 3 OForesight _/ RadicalxChange oPrimepao \ Network Markets 7
° F > Li,
Wo, | DeSci oO © GitcoinDAO Regen-Economies | p oe
> la . Block ‘2 >
Y + | Education Science ° © Radicle & Drips ° ° 6
4 Commons Unchained Angel #
fe) Stack OOrea ° fund Protocol
Crypto, Culture OTEC \ or of
& Society OCoordinape lumanity © Endaoment
O Protocol Labs © DoinGud
© Dream DAO Tooling & Qo ogee
ive
be hoSuls Infrastructure No,
— % &,
=~ Og a, © Kernel © Protein o> aa ss
Qo % © Forefront OThe DAOist s wo
a O Verses oO Cabin
2u Ro
225 <>”
My Experience <
g ra] Tony Fay dg pan t"0 Q Q

>
Ne
e
Binance Ac

Twitter Relationships |

Co
Between ImpactDAOs
UNICEF cnuored Fie
Brokoli Leyline

Blockchain for Climate foundation =A _
e@ Cosmos Giving Block:
e

PizzaDAO erc e” Ventures FinX

» Cel
Open Earth Foundation jnts Club / @ i
DOER Money Daw e impactMarket
e e Angel Protocol
Gain Forest e p :
Aquari bon Co Rainforest Direct 7 AntidoteDs

Nori typ = .
Va ¢ u
@ SuperBenefit - oe xf
‘ . ¥ r ) Impact #5
Project Ark “ p'

a t et se 2 ® F Bae
NFTree i : Roa

sess
screDAOS — e

O LOA Labs = Di
Basin DAO 4
CO enn Protocol : Sy
* Solid World DAO’ Network

““"@ a @:

Ecorise  ReFi pafume Ea Earth -EarthFund

“Ie
Ox ¥ x >

Single Earth @. ; © DAO ge : dao if
oucan® TE

Open Forest ee eo Captors Ee Eden a”) ~ Cohere

Fee Nes

Return Protocol ‘or Clir Blood ®% © rT @
Astri Grassroots Econom

MOONJEI Sovereign Nature >

e
AYOWECCA Bloomeria © g

Kolektivo Curve

spon re Found:

‘ademy e
Decent DAO

@ by
@ roject Galaxy

2 Coinmarketcap Earn __Storc
inDesk O O e

. Dropout DAO
@ ~ CoinTelegraph _Coinbase Earn
» 1 \
shapeShift DAO e
sun. e
Goldfinch ©... Quest Book
e@ pau es e@ @
“@ Decrypt Boysclub Crypto TryCrypto
HumanDAO @ AY Se e
v erapoi We3
@ y Therapoid
) Y Socialstack e@ @ f Y ; e e
Y Ne vn+y Culture and Society =~ Surge -—t7 1729
Ss i “alliance © Give Crypto , : Web3 University
O. zal) : 4
Em ye,
, . j
@ } Station’; Ss se Developer Nader Dabit
* Outlier Ventures oY <i @
aS sy Endaoment a2 i i
(e} @ AE WellnessDAO dspace C a = Ants-review
Two Plus NM y wo 4 Beir -ow Your Own «
~ slow scryptog Fab Protein Bed as re bs Chor Planetary Resilience DAO e
i ayer a ys PsyDAO@
RabbitHole itz Os Ao LabDAO e
4, lee =s ResearchHub DAO
Seed Club bo Kleros Zh bs DAO. -code4rena e@ @
x erubs Molecul: Parcel.money °
: Giasound Merch supply Chain blic Good School BRSDAO Atoms
fi ws Ke
“clime 2 DAO , ‘oe cae Forefront Odyssey e @
ic { Sl. DAO al PRISON Art Sy SS Vibe Bio‘oresight Institute DAO
bd S a beeeie Cabin @
Pozzle Planet - fer De @ fg Mee Cama Dele DAC VitaDAO — @ Yd) e
AO ozzle ane R n f sonti LYNX
Oh renee “@ adicle » Proof ofl integrity outs Protocol Opscientia.eth
pa Science Fund
ON YevetLongtl Financial | e e
ance DAO. A DAOpunks / OpenAccessDAO

SS “© ' Tip Part
Sg PrimeDAO » e O @ A

ics ¢€ The Commons StacrThe DAOist roof of Humanity

Geo Web.) \ _1Hive Gardens — O) SolidarityCard
) @ @ Gitcoin
& TEC lHive .
abs
© e Cheerbot
Panvala OxdaoApe
e

ETH Puerto Rico DAO
ImpactDAQs

Featured

We focused on ImpactDAOs that have achieved
substantial positive impact or have a proven
model to do so. These achieve positive
externalities in their given impact area but,
most importantly, act as essential building
blocks for other ImpactDAOs to achieve more

change.
Proof of Humanity

At its core, Proof of Humanity is a social identity layer system on Ethereum that
essentially, by creating a web of trust, aims to identify everyone on the internet
with proof of humanity through a Sybil-proof list of humans.

How does this bring us closer to a regenerative society?

Self-sovereign identity validation is the bedrock infrastructure to implement a
Universal Basic Income (UBI) mechanism to reach everyone on Earth. This is
important as each person should be entitled to one share of UBI distribution in
the form of UBI tokens. People in Kenya or Ghana will have the same access to
financial income as someone in London or New York.

You don’t need a bank account or any crypto to be onboarded into PoH. The only
condition to receive UBI is to register as a verified human. Today, 13,948
registered humans receive $UBI tokens every hour. $UBI is a necessary currency
layer to put a value on time in an open, global market.

26
UBI streams can lift people out of poverty in that they can buy groceries, a place
to live, and start businesses. If UBI achieves a meaningful value in the coming
years, people could stop worrying about meeting basic needs and would no
longer be tied to draining jobs to pay the bills. Proof of Humanity unlocks the
capacity for all humans to focus their time and energy on work that positively
moves humanity forward.

PoH's adoption has soared in areas like Latin America, where traditional finance
systems and corrupt governments have impacted communities the most. For
Argentineans dealing with hyperinflation, crypto is becoming a comparatively
more stable source of income for everyday activities.

Stacking PoH’s Impact. PoH’s social identity layer can be used by other
organizations as a trusted sybil-proof list of people. For example, DAOs can mint
the same amount of tokens or airdrops for every human in the DAO to
experiment with truly democratic voting systems (1 person = 1 vote) that account
for every community members’ voice.

One way that PoH is already creating impact is through Gitcoin’s funding rounds.
Gitcoin uses PoH as a donation multiplier for sybil resistant quadratic funding.
One weakness of quadratic funding is that it is susceptible to sybil attacks as
participants can try to split their funding across multiple accounts, which would
lead to an unfair allocation from the matching pool. Integrating PoH helps
mitigate the chances of this behaviour gaming the system.

27
Celo

1.1 billion people worldwide are underbanked or only have access to banking at a
prohibitively high price. As we design web3 tools, we need to include those who
need accessible banking services the most: those excluded from the current
monetary system. The simple ability to store and transact value has a
transformative impact.

Celo is a blockchain designed for inclusion to allow anyone to transact value with
local digital currencies and access previously inaccessible international markets
without any further requirement other than access to a smartphone.

Celo is a layer 1, climate-positive blockchain designed for inclusion. Protocol
stable coins are collateralized by crypto and natural capital assets as used as
collateral for stable protocol coins. Celo allows anyone with a smartphone to
interact with the blockchain without understanding its mechanisms.
Authenticating users’ phone numbers with their public keys through the Valora
App enables a simple, mobile-first user experience.

28
For example, Women in the Nagbalacan Loom Weavers Cooperative used to earn
$3-4 a day through weaving and selling their products in local fairs to tourists.
This income was not enough to overcome poverty, and barely enough to buy food
for a family. When COVID hit, the Philippine textile industry shut down, leaving
women without their primary source of income.

Through Celo and Impact Markets the cooperative received UBI through a few
smartphones some households had. The cooperative then re-distributed to
others in the community. UBI kept them afloat for a few weeks, but the real
unlock was accessing previously unreachable international markets.

They used the Valora wallet as a payment platform to connect and communicate
with buyers in the USA, France, and Germany. The first pilot month generated
$955 cUSD. They later set up an online marketplace in PayChant, a dApp built on
Celo, where merchants can open online stores and accept crypto payments. Now
women’s livelihood is higher than their pre-pandemic income.

Roughly 5 million people worldwide use DeFi, but less than 10% live outside
developed countries. DeFi for The People is an initiative to bring access to DeFi
(or better yet ReFi) to 6 billion smartphone users globally. A deep DeFi liquidity is
essential to design for inclusion. For a sustainable market, you need a strong
demand and supply, but you also need a deep pool that enables an efficient
transaction (minimum variation) between the two. With increasing access to a
solid DeFi ecosystem, previously unbanked citizens can put liquidity to
productive use, such as borrowing, to start small businesses.

Stable coins help mitigate the risk of price volatility. Celo stable coins like Celo
dollar (CUSD), Celo euro (CEUR), and the Celo real (CREAL) are over-collateralized,
algorithmic stable coins based on Mento stability protocol. Brazilians, for
example, can trade cREAL, use it as payment for groceries, access rewards with
Ubeswap, or lend through MoolaMarket.

29
Celo has low multicurrency gas fees. Users can pay transaction fees with stable
coins, just like everyday money. Transfers happen almost instantly because there
are no intermediaries. As a proof-of-stake network, transaction fees are much
lower than relying on banks, which would be exceptionally high when transacting
with emerging markets. Beyond a stable coin project, Celo is a Layer 1 others can
build on top off. For example, the Kickstarter platform aims to become a
decentralized protocol building its platform on the Celo blockchain.

As we design new financial systems, we should internalize pollution and resource
extraction costs we now only perceive as externalities. In Sacred Economics,
Charles Eisenstein explains how ‘whatever backs the money, becomes sacred’. If
we back currencies with nature we create direct incentives to care for our
ecology. Natural Capital-backed currencies are a way to do that. We can use
natural assets as collateral that we can verify are sustained for the long term,
high quality and transparent so we can back currencies used in daily transactions.

The Climate Collective works to make Celo carbon-negative by tokenizing at
least 40% of Celo’s total reserve with carbon-sequestering natural assets. This
acts as a carbon sink. The Celo Reserve holds around $850M worth of assets.
Using 40% is sufficient to buy 135M rainforest trees and sequester about 43
megatons of CO2 per year.

But, we can’t simply plant trees and hope they will be cared for. Partnering with
Curve Labs, Moss.Earth, Flow Carbon, and Toucan they are working on
methodologies to restore, preserve, and represent the value of ecosystem
health. Natural Capital Tokens can be an incentive to reward activities like animal
conservation, urban food forests, etc. Celo Reserve currently holds Moss.erath’s
MCO2 carbon tokens and will soon accept Toucan’s BCT and NCT to help support
deep liquidity for a healthy environmental asset market on Celo. Celo builds tools
for previously unbanked communities to transact value. The more people access
these tools, the demand and circulation of these currencies increases, and hence
the reserve grows and programmatically preserves more natural landscapes.
Therefore, we align economic growth with ecological health.

30
CoordinAPE

As we move towards increasing decentralization, and a larger number of DAO
contributors coordinating towards shared goals, we need better mechanisms to
compensate and recognize each other for the effort and passion we pour into
DAOs. How do you properly incentivize and reward contributors?

Coordinape is a tool to understand how value moves through networks allowing
DAOs to move decision making and resource allocation agency to the
community. Contributors can directly recognize each other highlighting the
intrinsic, often unmeasurable value that can’t be captured in units of output but
rather by peer recognition. In cycles, each member has a set amount of allocation
points, to give to the contributors they have worked with based on what they
think of the effort and value a fellow contributor provided. These inputs are built
on sybil resistant social graphs where each line is an allocation from one member
to the next.

A contributor graph is generated and weighted towards the members that have
the most interactions and allocations. Without top-down management or HR we
can build a cohesive community to make the experience of working and
contributing to DAOs more human and fair.

$1
Kolektivo

Networked systems allow Local Regenerative Economies to leverage global,
collective toolkits, frameworks and talent, and learnings to implement to their
particular region. Although base infrastructure and frameworks are shared,
details are particular to each region’s values, culture, and local environment.

Kolektivo is enabling local impact economies for local communities to create and
manage their own regenerative economies. While implementing their own
framework for Kolektivo's first MVP was implemented in the Caribbean island of
Curacao, Kolektivo will translate their work on implementing these economies for
other communities to fork and implement.

They have allocated over 40 grants ($50K in total) to local impact projects, all
proposed and elected by Kolektivo'’s community members. Projects include
planting 1500 M2 of Food Forest on the island as well as the launching of the
CuraDAlI pilot app on the Fuse network which empowers over 300 local
community members to transact regenerative currencies.

32
Combining Astral protocol's location-based data protocol with Decentralized
Storage solutions to measure and store data related to the state of Natural
Assets to create Geo-special Impact NFTs (Regenerative Assets) helps redirect
funding and attention to more effective management of ecosystem assets and
corresponding ecosystem services as well as reward actions that positively
transform the ecological state of a certain area. The currency is backed by the
Regenerative Assets. Parametric insurance can be activated to funnel funds to
restore an area as soon as the data in the GeoNFT records a verifiable state
condition (e.g. wind speeds greater than x).

Kolektivo’s economic system is driven by social impact - you do something for
the community and get compensated within the same community economy. This
currency operates on a blockchain to ensure transparency and accountability, to
fairly distribute resources, and to set rules according to the objectives of its
econonyy.

By taking “ownership” of their community services, a multitude of individuals,
community projects, and organizations become self-sufficient and self-reliant.
This offers an opportunity for (unemployed) individuals, social entrepreneurs, and
organizations who currently participate in volunteer projects, to prosper and
contribute to increased well-being on the island. Kolektivo does not measure its
success by GDP, but by the collective impact created by and for its members,
hence protected from the global economy.

35
Regen Network

Earth cycles follow universal time, away from the speed of innovation in web3. It
takes time for nature to grow and thrive again. Regen Network builds tools and
knowledge so we can best exercise our agency to positively influence and
preserve the biosphere. Regen Network explores how to tie the value of
ecological health to economic value.

Regen is creating an opensource toolkit to measure, value, and improve the
health of our natural world and to align our economy to regenerative ecological
outcomes. Current registry programs are slow, expensive, and opaque. Project
developers have to pay $20,000 to $100,000 and follow standard guidelines,
and land stewards get 30% of the carbon credits they sell.

Regen’s web3 native carbon and ecological asset registry is community driven,
transparent, and dynamic. The methodologies that form the registry holistically
value ecosystems. Rather than saying they will focus on carbon and add co-
benefits to these credits, they are making it so everyone can invest directly in a
multitude of ecological benefits which creates new nature-based markets.

354
Methodologies are frameworks of how to measure changes in an ecological state
and an ecosystem’s response to particular regenerative practices. This is key in
developing accurate and transparent credits such as blue carbon, ocean
conservation, soil carbon, agroforestry, reforestation, biodiversity, species
protection. Social methodologies guide local community development, the
integration and utilization of indigenous knowledge, and beyond. A reforestation
methdology might answer how biodiversity and species return can be measured,
or how groundwater quality and carbon sequestration are impacted.

Anyone can select a methodology within the Regen Network, register a project,
begin framework implementation, and get financing through Regen Network's
marketplace. With on-chain governance tools, credits can also be used as local
currencies. Working alongside land stewards, biologists, data scientists, and
others, Regen has developed over 40+ methodologies with 12 million hectares of
ecological regeneration in the pipeline.

Although no credits have been created yet (we cannot speed up nature's cycles),
data on current projects is being stored on-chain through censoring and satellite
imaging. They have also introduced QF to understand how funding can be
allocated towards open-source research, therefore greenpilling scientists,
farmers, and ecological institutions and universities.

35
Toucan

As the blockchain ecosystem grows, let's build a regenerative financial system by
design-- weaving climate action into the fabric of web3. Carbon markets are
fragmented, opaque, and hard to access. Intermediaries extract much of the
value from projects on the ground doing the work to stabilize the atmosphere.

Toucan provides Web3 building blocks for a regenerative economy by bridging
carbon credits onto public blockchains. Removing intermediaries and replacing
them with smart contracts enables a transparent and efficient flow of money to
impact projects. Increasing credit’s demand and price signals catalyzes new
environmental project development.

The Toucan Carbon Bridge allows anyone to transfer carbon credits from legacy
registries (1-1 to a carbon token) to Toucan’'s blockchain-based Meta-Registry. It
is a one-way bridge to prevent double-counting as users retire the credits on the
source registry before bringing them on-chain. When a carbon credit is
tokenized, its on-chain version is a TCO2 "carbon token". Anyone with a wallet
can hold, buy, sell, and retire carbon tokens. Often, buying a full carbon tonne is
prohibitively expensive. Users can now buy small portions of credits with
Toucan's native fractionalization.

36
High quality carbon credits can be very expensive; fractionalized tokens
democratize access. Retiring carbon credits in legacy registries is often a manual
process so retirement aggregators bundle retirements into one, resulting in
opaque climate action that is not publicly verifiable.

TCO2 contracts store all attributes as credits are valued and traded at different
prices depending on project location, year, co-benefits, verification methodology,
vintage, etc. Toucan Carbon Pools are smart contract accounts with gating
criteria that hold a set of carbon tokens that share a minimum set of attributes.
E.g., the NCT pool only holds carbon-offsets from nature-based projects 2012
onwards with environmental co-benefits. When you deposit carbon tokens into a
carbon pool, you receive a carbon reference token (TCO2) specific to that carbon
pool, like a BCT token. TCO2 is useful across the decentralized ecosystem serves
as a redeemable coupon for a carbon token in the pool. When users redeem an
NCT or BCT for carbon tokens held in the pool they can receive a default or
choose specific carbon credits with particular attributes. Redeemed TCO2 are
retired and claimed as a carbon offset.

Toucan carbon is composable: developers can read data and write code
interacting with smart contracts holding carbon tokens. This means builders can
develop products on top of Toucan's infrastructure. Senken, for example, is an
explorer for users to purchase carbon offsets with specific additional benefits to
society. Senken’s leverages Toucan’s "read’ access to query the on-chain registry
and display it in an interface. KlimaDAO locks BCT in their treasury to create a
carbon-backed currency increasing the carbon tokens demand. Return protocol
automatically embeds carbon offsetting into any transaction. Finally, Toucan is
launching on Celo users on Celo blockchain can access Toucan's full registry
build applications that integrate climate positive action across Celo's use cases.

As of April 3rd, there are 18M CO2 tonnes bridged and 167 projects tokenized.
With the enhanced utility of carbon credits, we can put verifiable climate action
at the core of our everyday financial system- just by having, holding and using
money, we can contribute to a regenerative economy.

37
Radicle & Drips

Sharing code freely and publicly has made it drastically cheaper and easier to
build software, yet corporation-hosted platforms for code collaboration are
vulnerable to censorship and, the financial value that is unlocked by software is
often distributed to shareholders and not to the communities that created it.
Radicle is a web3 network for software collaboration - a peer-to-peer stack for
developer communities to build software together. Teams can use Radicle Orgs
to create sovereign and platform agnostic DAOs that host peer-to-peer
repositories while maintaining an auditable, transparent history on Ethereum.
What does this mean? The codebase is freely accessible to anyone in the world,
is user-friendly and uncensorable, and has no single point of failure.

Let’s focus on Radicle Drips. At it’s core, Drips are used to create recurring
funding streams from one address to another allowing creators to generate
continuous income from their communities. The broader shift behind this
functionality is to put redistribution at the center of the web3 ecosystem.

38
Any Eth address can automatically spread or “drip” a percentage of their funds to
others. Use cases vary from setting recurring payments for DAO contributors to a
sustainable creator economy where artists or developers receive recurring
payments rather than hustling for the next NFT drop or grant application.
Recipients can choose to involve their supporters with benefits or through
Snapshot spaces to participate in decisions like future roadmaps. Using drips,
anyone can fund and manage mutual support flow networks.

Splits automatically split a portion of incoming drips to others. With Splits, the
value keeps flowing as the recipient chooses to pass along (re-distribute) a
percentage of their drips to other communities, collaborators, or projects on
platforms like Giveth and Gitcoin.

Sharing one’s drip to others creates a positive-sum ecosystem that circulates
value rather than locking it up. Open source software projects can receive drips
and split these funds to other open source tools they depend on. Communities
can direct Drips to public goods (or to ImpactDAQs) they care about and benefit
from. These ImpactDAQs can split received drips to redistribute to projects in
their ImpactDAO stack that has enabled them to achieve positive outcomes.
Radicle Drips creates a circular and redistributive funding ecosystem.

radicle ORIRS

39
GitcoinDAO

GitcoinDAO builds for human thriving. Supporting digital public goods can make
it easier for humans worldwide to coordinate and collaborate globally. Public
goods failures are coordination failures. Open-source software, the environment,
public education, and health are integral parts of society. Yet, governments and
legacy institutions suffer coordination failures in providing for these public
goods, and non-profits often fail at capturing value for the benefits that public
goods create. Communities have little to no say on which public goods should be
funded and maintained. Web3 is an opportunity to solve coordination failures
and Gitcoin plays a role in sharing this vision with the rest of the world.

Gitcoin empowers communities to build and fund public goods. Open source
software contributes $500B in yearly economic output, but creators and
maintainers of digital public goods have no effective ways to monetize their
work. Hence, Gitcoin's initial focus was to realign incentives between open-
source software, those who use it, and those who create and maintain it. Gitcoin
has distributed $58M through 13 Gitcoin Quadratic Funding Grants rounds.
These rounds support a plurality of global public goods such as Longevity,
Climate, and peace efforts in Ukraine. The most recent round, Grants Round 13,
had 2415 active grants, which is a 20x over the initial round two years ago.

40
Grants act as a launchpad for builders to enter the web3 ecosystem. Projects
started from Gitcoin Grants include, Uniswap, Yearn Finance, linch exchange,
Prsymatic labs, walletconnect, Kernel, ReFiDAO, & more. Since its launch in 2017,
Gitcoin has helped 72,912 funders reach 303,274 earners. With the help of
Gitcoin, other organizations (even those outside of web3 like Open Collective)
have ran QF rounds. Gitcoin’s next aim is to scale through Grants 2.0, a
decentralized, modular, forkable Quadratic Funding protocol for anyone to run a
QF round in their community. Each round generates collective intelligence data
on which public goods are perceived as most valuable. This data currently
represent Ethereum's ecosystem preferences but, if QF scales, it could
represent the world's preferences of what efforts are considered essential to
support.

In a regenerative open internet, anyone can access resources in proportion to
their value creation independent of geographic location, education, or
background. Builders can connect, join the DAO’s working groups, learn through
Kernel, or build collaboratively through Hackathons and Bounties. There are
311,668 monthly active developers. Moonshot Collective brings developers
together to create open-source software tools that enhance internal operations
for GitcoinDAO. Other DAOs can leverage these toolkits for their operations.
Tip.party, for example, is a toolkit to holistically reward contributors.

Perhaps the most important role of Gitcoin is that it is a Schelling Point for
people who want to use wbe3 to create a better world. This translates into
cultivating vibes & an internal culture that supports human thriving. This involves
experimenting on governance systems, creating spaces for open conversations
on public goods, and designing organizational frameworks for better contributor
experiences. Grants have encouraged others to implement Retroactive Public
Goods Funding or Aqueducts to commit a % of one's earnings to public goods. It
has catalyzed the idea of a Solarpunk future and the meme of Regenerative
Finance to the public. Schelling Point Conferences, memes, lore, Solarpunk art,
and educational content, gather many to explore how web3 can solve
coordination failures & regenerate the world.

41
ImpactDAO Stacks
Each ImpactDAO, by definition, creates
positive externalities, which enables value
to the rest of the ecosystem. This creates a
nascent equilibrium of give-first value

creation.

Over time, organic collaboration between
ImpactDAOs enables a emergent network of

deeply positive sum behaviour.
Sketching an ImpactDAO stack

Let’s explore how featured ImpactDAOs could, hypothetically, stack for a
simplified framework of local, sovereign micro-economies that weave
regeneration into their economic systems.

First, the community collectively decides on the values, goals, and actions they
will coordinate around and fund.

Celo’s blockchain can power the Valora App for members to transact value,
containing value flow within their geographical sphere, regardless of the broader
economic climate.

With Proof of Humanity, members have access to UBI to cover basic needs and
each member is empowered to contribute their own expertise to uplift the
community.

44
Members focusing on agriculture can better provide food for their community by
applying Regen Network’s use cases. Regen’s research explores best methods
to regenerate particular living species and how to assert monetary value to
particular ecological transformations.

How do we verify that regeneration is actually happening? Geospatial and
remote data sensors (what Astral Protocol is building) can trigger a reward

behavior on smart contracts once the positive change occurs IRL.

We use Proof of Humanity again to verify that the person who worked on the
soil is the same person who uploads the data and receives the rewards.

S-

Currently, the value of credits is low, but Toucan’s Bridge to transfer credits from
off-chain legacy registries to on-chain increases liquidity and buyers’ access to
credit markets which increases demand for credits and value ultimately
transfered to projects.

The more valuable the credits, the more profitable it becomes for communities

to care for forests rather than extracting forests’ resources. In this regenerative
system, the health of the ecology improves as the economy grows.

45
We can apply Quadratic Funding as used by Gitcoin for the community to signal
which projects resources should be funneled to. Proof of Humanity, once again,
alllows us to verify that each human represents one vote in governance
decisions.

Projects could bootstrap with Augmented Bonding Curves as designed by
Commons Stack. Community members invest in projects they care about; the
curve design ensures that a portion of the funds is always distributed to a shared
pool, sustaining public goods even if the original investors exit the project.

AIL
—O-

All of these tools can be built through Radicle’s open-source software stack.

Beneficiaries of public goods, those who enjoy public roads, public schools,
restored forests, an artist’s music or a healer’s meditation, can direct Radicle
Drips to support the continuous value given. The receiving individual or
organization can further split these drips to the individual or teams that are
responsible for that work’s creation. ImpactDAQOs hence receive recurring Drips
from those receiving positive externalities. ImpactDAOs further re-distribute
Drips to those ImpactDAOs that enabled them to create positive externalities.

46
6)
ob
acer

9,9

Q
a QQ

Networked ImpactDAO stacks

This example was just one snapshot within a single hypothetical community. As
we build a new operating system for global coordination, we can incorporate all
aspects of life and living species.

Networks can have a based on location proximity, or represent globally
distributed communities with shared ideas and values. ImpactDAOs can be
globally connected sharing value, talent, insights and resources while
implementing solutions acorss distributed impact-networks with a distinct
interdependent ImpactDAO stack. Simultaneous experiments iterating with
close feedback loops back to a global network creates an ever evolving
collective intelligence of better frameworks for positive change.

Each ImpactDAO by definition creates positive externalities, there is a

compounding nature to them all working together. In sum, the positive
externality is the ecosystem - an infinite garden

47
Innovative webS primitives

* Pods — self-governed and emergent pods that move agency and excecution
power to working groups increase growth and flexibility. Pods unlock cross-
DAO collaboration and pods can bud, merge, and split with cross-DAO
members. Pods by Orca Protocol do not bring prescriptive methods on how
DAOs should be structured, but are rather dynamic and composable
structures that DAOs can play with.

* Recognition of value — systems like Coordinape and SourceCred allow us to
collectively and more accurately recognize and distribute immeasurable
value. At a human layer, we can bring our whole selves to our work and
humanize the otherwise top-down experience of sharing, and receiving value.
The tech layer enables transparency, fairness, and distributed decision
making.

* DAO collaborations — concepts like token swaps that enable shared stakes in
each other’s growth, funding shared ventures, and cross-DAO meta-
governance to decide positive- sum approaches are key components of a
synergistic ecosystem.

* Science / IP-NFTs — moving away from a monopolized pharma industry
towards an open-source patient-centric one. DAOs can own, license, and
transact IP-NFTs from projects they support. DAOs can launch patient-centric
BioDAOs focused on areas such as Alzheimer’s, cancer, or diabetes research
with tight feedback loops and collaboration between patients and
researchers.

48
* UBI — Proof of Humanity, Impact Markets, and GoodDollar are exploring
diverse approaches on how everyone can be provided with the financial
stability to cover basic needs.

* Natural Capital Assets — the ability to back currencies by Nature to tie
ecologic regeneration to economic development.

* Drips — a continuous flow of value distribution instead of locking value up.
Anyone can support causes they care about and those who receive can
further redistribute to those who enabled them to create value. Without
intermediaries we can collectively fund the action and work we value.

* Augmented Bonding Curves — a typical bonding curve with the addition of a
shared funding pool, a token lock-up/vesting mechanism, and feedback loops
that align idividual incentives to the collective funding of a shared commons.

Lid
AWA

y / I\\\

49
Our monetary system is very efficient, yet
not diverse or regenerative. With webs, we
can design a better economic system and
embed our values in it. We can move away
from a monoculture type of economy to
ecology economies --experimenting on new
ways to transact value: Praise systems to
reward that which can’t be measured,
natural-capital currencies, universal basic
income, local impact currencies, circular
economies, mutual credit, location-sovereign

currencies, etc.

These ImpactDAOs demonstrate that we can

program our values into our money.
©) Impact Markets

Impact Markets’ mission is to lift communities out of poverty. 38,150 beeficiaries
spread across 33 countries and 208 communities are receiving daily UBI from
their platform. UBI smart contracts have specific parameters based on each
community's reality and all beneficiaries can claim cUSD on a regular basis.
Currently, they rely on donations (from 4,973 backers) to redistribute funds to
communities. A total of $2,277,254 has been distributed. On average
beneficiaries receive ~$0.54 per day. The exact rate varies depending on the
amount raised by each backer for each community, specific local economy
circumstaces, living costs, and the value of a dollar against local currency.

Operating as a DAO, each community is represented by on-chain smart contracts
so that community managers and donors influence the future of their protocol.
Impact Markets is built on Celo, enabling users to transact through wallets
attached to phone numbers. Current UBI rates might not be high enough to cover
all basic expenses, however, positive externalities can multiply because the
money that flows in as UBI is recirculated within the community to generate more
value. Impact Markets is exploring how to complement UBI with new ways to
generate income with pilot programs in Brazilian favelas where the protocol paid
people for each kg of plastic collected and delivered to recycling.

As a donor, you can choose to support anyone in the world and transfer money
with minimum fees knowing that most of the money will actually reach that
person and make a difference. Recipients can not only cover their basic needs,
but also start saving as they become comfortable with digital payments systems,
borrowing, lending, and the other opportunities decentralized finance networks
enable. Dashboard with on-chain data: www.impactmarket.com/global-dashboard

52
» Bloom Network

Bloom Network is a peer-to-peer action network for regenerative cultures. Local
chapters engaged in regenerative actions can share resources with each other to
rapidly upskill each community. 30,000 people on the ground across 16 local
chapters in 11 countries establish local economies focused on food sovereignty,
transformative justice, arts gatherings, and regional autonomy.

Local Bloom DAQs form regional token economies focused on local impact
projects around their bioregion or watersheds. Bloom Network acts as a
connective tissue and knowledge sharing enabler for projects to fork initiatives in
different locations. Bounties incentivize regenerative actions and direct a
percentage of stacking rewards to local chapters. Although the official DAO is not
yet formed, communities have been actively organizing and operating for years
on grassroots efforts.

One example of a local Bloom DAO is a Rio de Janeiro network that runs on Muda
currency to encourage cultural, educational, and socio-environmental actions
that are often not covered by the traditional financial system. Members transact
Muda for doing beach clean up, educating, sharing food, tokenizing forests,
implementing organic food systems, and for creating networks of value. Similarly,
other Bloom Chapters organize around collaboration of wisdom, knowledge,
experience, innovation, and creativity -- important resources that don’t capture
much value in current, legacy extractive systems.

53
G*) Grassroots Economics

Grassroots Economics uses web3 to create local, community-specific currencies
that enable rural communities in Kenya to take charge of their own livelihoods
and economic future. To date forty-five communities are creating and sharing
value as members have started 60,000 small businesses since Grassroots
Economics launched. The project is open-source and Grassroots is actively
working with communities beyond Kenya to implement these strategies and to
share insights on collaborating with other ImpactDAQs within the ecosystem to
increase postive outcomes. For example, Grassroots collaborates with Kolektivo
on the best regenerative agroforestry practices.

e
1XO ixo [tot tenses |

iXO aims to finance and verify positive changes in the state of the world to create
an impact economy. The iXO protocol, which is still being developed, will enable
users to create verifiable tokenized impact claims. Oracle services independently
veriify claims, issue proofs of impact and certified digital credentials such as
Renewable Energy Certificates.

Anyone can invest in project Alpha Bonds through an Impact Marketplace.
Alphabonds are dynamic token bonding curves that adjust the pricing of shares
and distribution of future returns in response to feeding real-world changes
information into the bond. As the probability of a social outcome varies, pricing
signals act as a feedback loop to direct investments to projects achieving
successful change. This project is yet to launch and we have yet to verify the
viability of these ideas.

54
sf SEEDs [not teunenes |

Seeds is an ecosystem exploring how we can coordinate distributed regenerative
communities. The project has focused on developing tools, frameworks, and
methodologies to launch the “Minimum Viable Regenerative Economy”. You can
access their templates, and extensive guides on regenerative financial systems,
and social and ecological practices. Communities can launch Decentralized
Human Organizations (DHOs) and coordinate around local food economies. The
SEEDs currency (not live yet) is allocated through contribution scores based on:
a) Economic Contribution: stacking and transacting SEEDs with local
organizations that support regenerative practices; b) a Social Contribution:
community-building, organizing events, and sharing knowledge and services.

Citizens’ contributions are multiplied through reputations of their expertise, time,
and value. Organizations earn contribution scores which are affected by
contribution to the local economy (e.g. volume and number of transactions),
regenerative reputation (the extent to which the organization contributes or
extracts from the environment), and collective opinion of how much value is
offered by the organization.

Seeds is structured in complementary DHOs where resources, talent, and
attention flow between DHOs wherever its most needed each season. Seeds
Commons focuses on budgeting and coordination. The Explorers group
facilitates research on new proposals to implement, the Tools group develops
apps and smart contracts. Regenerative Civics Alliance is an incubator where 12
projects will implement local regenerative economies using Seeds’ toolkit.

55
To bring back the green to our planet by
supporting material & living capital. These
ImpactDAOs are building the tools for us to
embed regeneration within the core of our

financial system.
Noss.earth

Moss purchases and tokenizes the credits of reforestation and conservation
projects in the Amazon Rainforest. Tokenizing credits increases traceability,
transparency, and prevents the double counting. One MCOQ2 token is equal to one
tonne of CO2. Moss.earth also increases accessibility to the carbon credit
markets which is important because as market participation increases so does
financing for regenerative projects, diminishing incentives of extractive activities.

Families excluded from labor markets can obtain jobs that protect the rainforest.
Projects are selected on threatened areas. Investments then commit to capture
20 years of satellite imaging, and on-the ground sampling of flora and biomass.
E.g Ituxi is located in one of the most deforested areas of the Amazon that has
been subject to illegal logging, cattle raising, and land grabbing. That area is now
protected by local communities that recieve funding and education on forest
management and sustainable resource management for agriculture such as acai
and chestnut tree cultivation.

Moss has sent $30 million to Amazon preservation projects, preserved 301
million trees, and avoided 1.33 million tons of emissions. Separate from the
MCO2tokens, anyone can purchase an Amazon Forest NFT representing the
protection of a hectare of rainforest. Buyers can digitally monitor that hectare
with remote sensing tools enabled by Descartes Labs. Moss committed to a 30-
year protection fund to cover the costs of patrolling, satellite imagery, and any
other demand necessary for the security of the areas. Moss works with more
than 200 clients including Gol, Brazil’s largest airline, to offset their emissions.

58
& Nori

Nori is a marketplace connecting buyers and suppliers to carbon removal.

1 Nori Removal Tonne (NRT) warranties the buyer that CO2 will be sequestered
for at least 10 years. If a buyer purchased NRT and natural events cause the
carbon to be released, Nori will buy new NRTs to guarantee each NORI always
represents 10 years. Through regenerative agriculture practices farmers
increase CO2 sequestered in the soil. Carbon rich crops have more organic
matter increasing crop yields, but improvements aren’t seen until after ~7 years
which is why farmers need upfront financing to transition to these practices.

The NORI token will allow for price discovery. People purchase 1 NRT receiving 1
NORI token that can be freely traded. The NORI price in dollars varies by supply
and demand. However, each NORI only buys one NRT that is retired upon sale
preventing double counting of carbon removal. Farmers on Nori spend ~90% less
certifying and verifying their projects. Since 2019, Nori has sold (hence removed)
~76,000 tonnes of carbon, paid $1.41 million to farmers.

36 K1imaDAO

KlimaDAO has so far accumulated 16,374,289 tonnes of carbon via BCTs from
Toucan. Their launch created initial high liquidity for the ReFi ecosystem with
over $53,404,772 in protocol-owned liquidity. Their token KLIMA is an
inflationary carbon-backed currency. They are on-boarding more carbon assets
on-chain via SubDAOs such as with MCO2 & GNT tokens from Moss and
GoddessDAO. On chain data: https://dune.xyz/Cujowolf/Klima-DAO

59
Astral Protocol [ Not Launched |

Astral Protocol bridges the physical and the digital through an ecosystem of
location-based web3 applications and spatial contracts. Astral designs tools to
for devs to easily build location-based dapps. Astral’s on-chain map of the world
interoperates with verifiable location claims. Tools include verifiable smart
contract-based spatial data registries, location claims, and a Web3-native
geospatial data storage system on IPFS for storing sensor data.

Astral will enable us to tie smart contract’s behaviour to changes in an ecological
state of a given ecosystem. This supports human assesments by combining data
collected from sensors directly in the environment, with satellite or drone remote
sensing data and human inference we can better understand ecological
conditions. Now on-chain actions are tied directly to the real world reality. This is
key to designing natural capital currencies as we need to transparently verify
natural assets are protected or to retroactively reward communities for
regenerating a dry crop of land.

We can adapt to changes in the ecosystem’s health. Suppose we detect
indicators of ecosystem degradation, E.g. "humidity reaches X range". In that
case, we direct attention to the specific area for targeted, less extreme
interventions to preserve ecological health. Sprout is another use case, a
sustainability link bond that links loan terms to environmental metrics that
farmers could leverage to finance activities. Local contracts (smart contracts
that can use location as a condition in its control flow) could serve for tools of
territorial sovereign governance with use cases like intelligent transport, supply
chain and logistics. Eventually, we could use Astral’s spatial data registry
combined with a location-based filter for local-complementary currencies.
Conditioning transactions through boundaries could enable local groups to
continue to create and exchange value regardless of the global economic state.

60
[3] Ethic Hub

Unbanked smallholder farmers who produce 14 of the food we consume in the
world have no access to banks, registered identity, or collateral needed to access
traditional finance loans.

Farmers can borrow capital at a 70% discount from current markets. Applying
crowd-lending backed by crowd-collateral, lenders stake collateral on the
farmer's behalf to secure the farmers’ loans and insurance premiums to protect
them in case of crop failure. EthicHub provides farmers with access to markets
they can sell their products to. EthicHub has intermediated over $ 1.2M USD on
loans retaining less than 1% default rate.

& Ayowecca Uganda

Climate change has led to prolonged droughts, erratic rains, and declined
agricultural production in Uganda. Through permaculture, Ayowecca plants fruit
trees in schools and trains local farmers to setup farms in their backyards.
Ayowecca gives farmers seeds and equips them with basic agricultural and
knowledge and entrepreneurial skills so they can have sustainable livelihoods.

This project has been financed through Gitcoin grants and has thus far restored 3
wet lands, planted fruit trees in 16 schools, in 8 health centers, and distributed
5000 seedlings to communities. They have collected 10 tones of plastic.
Ayowecca will plant trees in 64 schools, 40 heath centers this year.

61
@2 Eden Dao Caria |

The Eden Dao is a protocol to accelerate carbon removal. Eden DAO's thesis is
that by creating tokenomics that reframe carbon as a source of money in the
world (instead of a cost on the shoulders of corporations or consumers), it
unlocks an elastic, optimistic demand engine that bootstraps world carbon
removal supply.

To save our planet, we not only have to massively reduce the 40B tonnes of CO2
we emit every year, but we will also have to capture all our historical emissions.
This requires a global carbon removal ability of 50-100B tonnes a year. We
currently remove 40M a year. Eden dao provides liquidity for pioneering projects
to scale their high quality carbon removal methods by buying their future offsets.

© Solid World DAO [tot Launched |

Solid World DAO is building a carbon market place through tokenizing pre-
purchased carbon credits, providing liquidity to bootstrap projects and bridging
their carbon offsets on-chain to Toucan/Flow Carbon. This unlocks funding for
pre-certified carbon sequestration projects to help them get off the ground.
These projects might have otherwise not been able to scale due to long,
expensive traditional certifying processes. Solid World DAQ’s existing set of
projects encompass a network of over Imillion hectares of suppliers that are
helping farmers, forest owners, and mangrove growers.

62
ss. Treejer

Treejer connects donors with rural planters worldwide through smart contracts. A
portion of donations go to fund Rural Development and Tree Rescue (tree
insurance against natural disasters). Treejer has planted 200 trees and enabled 4
community development projects in forest areas in Peru.

@) Flow Carbon

Flow Carbon tokenizes carbon offsets from large-scale forest conservation and
nature restoration projects enabling a transparent and efficient revenue stream
for projects on the ground. Corporations, individuals, and protocols can easily
access and trade credits in crypto exchanges. The GNT token corresponds to
nature-based solutions from Verra, CCB Standards, and Gold Standard.

Focusing on nature-based solutions, Flow Carbon prioritizes projects that support
livelihood opportunities for indigenous communities or protect areas of high-
biodiversity ecosystems or endangered wildlife. Projects include Katingan
Mentaya Forest Protection protecting 40 endangered species in Indonesia or
Selva Mataven Forest supporting 16,000 indigenous people in Colombia.

A BasinDAO

Basin DAO will generate carbon and eco-credits through protocol owned real
estate and joint ventures with landowners. They execute climate, nature and
carbon projects emphasising "core benefits" such as biodiversity, ecosystem
services and climate resilience.

63
® senker Cara |

Seken is a gateway to the web3 carbon and regenerative economy: Corporations
looking for carbon offsets, investors seeking ESG assets, or a regen human who
wants to directly support carbon projects without intermediaries. Its current
focus is on projects in Africa to enable financing and pre-financing opportunities
to project developers who would ottherwise not have that access. Royalties of
future credit sales funnel back to communities & land owners. Working with
other projects like Toucan Protocol to tokenize these carbon offsets, they ensure
the transparency, traceability, and no double counting of credits.

2 Return Protocol [sot Launches |

Return Protocol will allow users to automatically and passively offset their on-
chain transactions across any blockchain. Storing Return’s NFT in your wallet set
up with offsetting preferences, you can transact as normal while offsetting
happens in the background. As funds are directed to carbon projects,
transactions can become carbon neutral or even negative. Launch in May 2022.

Ce KumoDAO | Not Launched |

Kumo aims to create a carbon-backed stablecoin pegged to USD. Users can
borrow interest-free KUSD against tokenized carbon offsets. If this is achieved,
every transaction will act as a vault for carbon credits, embedding climate action
into every transaction. This mechanism would need high demand for KUSD to be
used throughout the ecosystem. The more KUSD is in demand and in circulation,
the more carbon is taken off-market and the more financing is available to
carbon projects. Viability is yet to be seen as the protocol is yet to be launched.

64
© ReFiDAO

ReFiDAO acts as a home for ReFi project. They have been one of the driving
initiatives for the collaborative growth of the ReFi ecosystem with initiatives such
as founders circles. They launched the ReFi podcast to educate about
meaningful climate impact using web3. They are also exploring an open-source
event framework platform for local distributed ReFi meetups.

In the future, the ReFi hub will show talent, jobs, and act as an aggregator of ways
one can get involved in ReFi projects across the landscape.

a) A114Climate

All4Climate builds bridges from web3 to climate activists on the ground. They
onboard nonprofits into understanding how web3 can help their operations and
provide a platform and community to launch climate initiatives.

‘jg Moonjel1y [act tenons]

Moonjelly DAO aims to direct funding to ocean projects. A community governed
fund will allocate decision power gated by educational and reputation NFTs
earned through contributions and completion of relevant education flows,
developed by ocean scientists. In Q3 2022, they will launch a token to raise

liquidity, pairing scientifically proven impact, with indigenous artists, to generate
further funding.

65
dClimate

Web3 enables dClimate to build Earth's climate record on-chain accessible to all.
With Climate information, communities can understand how climate affects
where they live & leverage this to build tools to adapt and improve conditions.

dClimate's data was used for $250 million+ of parametric weather risk insurance
helping farmers in underserved regions like Cambodia get covered for as little as
$11 with Arbol and Chainlink. Their carbon program launching this year will
protect the Congo Basin rainforest by tokenizing 100 million tonnes of CO2
throughout Africa. On-chain satellite monitoring and verification will prevent
deforestation. Through an loT weather program, underserved communities can
monetize data they collect in areas lacking granular insights. Since launch, 1500
unique users have made 1 million+ requests of the free 2OTB+ climate data-
satellite, carbon, temperature, rainfall, and wind data, including 60 million+ grid
points and 120K weather stations.

() Shamba

Builds an oracle to provide web3 projects with geospatial data and analytics to
support applications like parametric insurance, carbon and eco-credits on the
regenerative finance space. On chain models can map and quantify ecosystem
services such as carbon sequestration, or use machine learning to identify
potential hazards like floods from satellite imagery.

66
@EP open Forest Protocol | tet tances _|

Only large projects can access carbon accreditation, an expensive accreditation
process. We have minimum ways to verify that projects are contiued to be taken
care of. Open Forest Protocol brings reforestation funding, verification, and
monitoring fully on-chain, unlocking carbon financing for projects. Through OPF
anyone can directly invest in forest project operators and indegenous
communities, who are planting and caring for a reforested area. Forest projects
are registered as an NFT holding unique geospatial, ecological, and monitoring
data. A network of validators can transparently verify or challenge forest data
before on-chain carbon credits are minted, hence ensuring immutable and
transparent credits. This data is verified every year to ensure forests continue to
grow and are protected.

The project is pre-launch but they have 200,000 hectares across 24 projects in
Africa, Latin America, and Europe committed through Open Forest Protocol.

A regenerative NFT marketplace that incentivizes actions that maintain native
ecosystems (ie. tree planting). Avano uses satellite, IOT devices, and
georeferenced images to measure and verify regenerative actions. Users can buy
NFTs where data is recorded and updated over time. As the ecological value is
improved and updated, the value of the NFT grows, backed by evidence of
natural value. This is yet to be launched.

67
H »)) HeliosDAO [sot Launches |

Helios invests in solar projects in emerging markets. It has funded 4 solar
installations in India that will sell clean energy to industrial customers. E.g., $250k
was invested in a project in Pune, India generating 500kW of power to the local
grid, reducing customers’ bills by 47%, and preventing ~1000 tonnes of CO2
emissions per year. Web3, unlocks the ability to directly send funds internationally
to emerging markets. Solar markets in the US and EU large capital chasing few
opportunities drives the returns of solar down. In emerging markets, the opposite
is true. Lack of financial infrastructure and limited access to institutional capital
leads to low liquidity that could fund thousands of high impact projects. Data on
all transactions, power generated, carbon emissions prevented, and investor
returns are available on chain.

©) digital Gaia [ot Launched |

Local stewards, experts, and scientists can investigate and cross-validate
knowledge of field data, scientific models, & local practices. Integrating that with
real-world data builds a collective intelligence on regenerative practices.

Slow, expensive, and opaque methodology standards create bottlenecks
between communities ready to positively impact the environment and a global
market ready to fund them. In digital Gaia land stewards will be able to submit
projects for experts and independent researchers to assess and provide
feedback on methodologies. Independent assessments increase the impact
rating for projects to get financed. Bounties encourage continuous data
collection on the ground. Once projects are verified, impact-credits are created.
We are yet to see this implemented in action.

68
To regenerate the earth, we need to scale our
ability to identify, optimize, and accelerate
solutions that actually work. We also need to
tailor each to their specific location and
improve these with scientific expertise and

indigenous knowledge.
Re Protocol Labs

Protocol Labs explores, starts, supports, and grows ways to make our digital
technology better for humans. Their research explores decentralization,
knowledge sharing, computation, energy, funding, distributed systems,
cryptography, etc. All research is open-source, with users and contributors as
part of the development process. Their licensing approach makes tools free for
all to obtain and continuously update to match the evolving external reality.

Protocol Labs host an event series Funding the Commons to discuss
experiments and frameworks to create and fund our collective commons. Topics
include how to encourage open-source innovation and the maintenance of
projects, approaches to incentivize risky research, and approaches to fund public
goods at scale. Two of their main products are IPFS and Flilecoin. With IPFS,
users can share information directly without needing a central server to name,
organize, update, and share data. DAO voting systems like Snapshot rely on IPFS
as a core part of their infrastructure. Filecoin allows users to pay others to store
data. Fliecoin runs almost entirely on renewable energy from solar farms.

Research areas:

Knowledge Engineering- How can we discover, link, and process knowledge
available in available data from previous efforts? A product that resulted from
this research is The Underlay, a global, distributed public knowledge graph.
Cryptoeconomics —- Engineering practices, tools, and coordination games to
guide human interaction toward shared goals.

Networking - How can computer networks better enable information to move
across the globe?

Meta-research - The economics of science and incentive systems in research,
and validating scientific data and sharing that knowledge.

72
Ocean Protocol

Even though data enables large innovations and improvements across
technology and science, a small set of large companies hold and control our data.
Through Ocean Protocol, more people can capture the value of this data,
whether it by preserving ownership, monetizing it, or enabling anyone to extract
insights for scientific or technological discoveries that others can benefit from.
Developers use Ocean Libraries to build their own data wallets and data
marketplaces. Data owners and consumers use the Ocean Market app to publish,
discover, and consume data in a secure, privacy-preserving way.

Datatokens are “data legos” -- ERC20 tokens to access data services. Through
Ocean smart contracts, one can publish data (deploy and mint data tokens) or
consume data services (spend data tokens) and re-purpose crypto wallets as
data wallets and crypto exchanges as data marketplaces. The data itself does not
have to be on-chain, only the access token.

As a user, you can earn by stacking OCEAN on datasets, publishing and selling
your proprietary data or adding value to free data sets in Ocean Market. The most
valuable data to perform accurate research studies is private, but this is usually
hard to access and has privacy concerns. In the Ocean Market, data publishers
monetize their data while preserving privacy and control. Al practitioners and
data scientists can run algorithms, analyze, models, compare, and generate value
from private data they could not access before without putting privacy at risk
because the computations happen remotely and the data never leaves the
premise of the user. Ocean Market is open source meaning anyone can build their
own marketplaces with tools developed by Ocean. Ocean DAO provides
community funding to projects to grow within the ecosystem.

73
2 PrimeDAO

Prime DAO is building coordination tools for a collaborative web3 ecosystem.
DAOs operate as network organizations where governance drives shared
resource allocation for common goals. While DAOs are highly interconnected and
interdependent, they often operate in silos. DAO2DAO relationships are positive-
sum incentive-alignment mechanisms for the growth of the DAO ecosystem.

Token swaps are the exchange of governance tokens to strengthen the
alignment in vision of DAOs working on common goals. These tokens can be
trustlessly exchanged between DAOs dependent on an agreed set of conditions.
Toke swaps are trustless because DAOs can recover any shared funding if
conditions are not met. Either the collaboration occurs, with the necessary
funding being correctly directed, or it doesn’t, and each DAO gets its funding
back. It is also flexible. Conditions can be added in real-time to account for any
changes that may arise while a negotiation is in process. DAOs can co-fund a new
wallet representing a shared liquidity pool or a joint venture such as a shared
product or research that unlocks value to all parties.

Prime’s Proposal Inverter enables multiple groups to collaborate on a shared
proposal for common projects and store the allocated funds in a common pool
that will distribute funds once conditions are met. All of this can happen within
Prime Deals, a framework and on-chain platform for DAOs to collaborate,
negotiate, and execute agreements, creating verifiable and enforceable
agreements. Think of Prime Deals as collaboration-as-a-service tooling.
PrimeDAO also crowd-sources ratings of protocols.

Prime DAO is already using collaboration mechanisms with Balancer, GitcoinDAO,
VitaDAO, and Symmetric as well as with the Celo and Gnosis ecosystems.

74
oP | Optimism

Optimism is a low-cost and fast Ethereum L2 blockchain infrastructure that
promotes the growth and sustainability of public goods. Optimism is giving all of
the profits from sequencing (until it is fully decentralized) to public goods funding
experiments. It has donated $1M to public goods through retroactive funding.

Public goods are underfunded because with no revenue-generating business
model there is no exit mechanism to encourage the public to invest early in
organizations. Another problem is how it is easier to agree on what was useful in
the past than what will be useful in the future. Retroactive funding is as if society
paused every now and then to look back, survey its citizens, and pay out the profit
each individual deserves. This creates an exit scenario rewarding projects
determined by how much public value these projects have already provided.

C Kottani Pay

Microwork and DAOs open opportunities for anyone to earn income, yet banking
systems make global transfer of value slow and expensive. Stablecoins reduce
the costs and frictions of sending and receiving cross-border micropayments and
Kottani can cut transaction fees by 93%. In Kenya, a pilot program used Celo’s
Valora digital wallet to connect 200 young workers with micro-work opportunities
enabling untapped talent to access new opportunities. Using Kotani’s off ramp,
people in Kenya can exchange stable coins for local currencies.

75
Yr) Orca Protocol

Orca protocol is creating tools around DAO governance that put people at the
center of the design. Their vision relies on the idea that DAO contributors can
coordinate within pods. Pods stands for ‘people organized decentrally.’
Essentially, pods are small working groups centered around one’s expertise.
Organizing governance around group expertise, each pod has its own multi-sig
creating mini-DAOs within a larger DAO. Pods can be emergent, fluid, and
modular, as explained by Orca: “Pods can exist as neighbors, embed or be
embedded in other pods, split, merge, etc” based on the ecosystem needs and
can either work independently or in collaboration with each other.

Orca tooling can eventually enable a composable metagovernance framework in
which each DAO has a meta-pod with stakeholders from different DAOs. This
acts as a connective tissue of multi-DAO governance councils.

«ph Kleros

Smart contracts are smart enough to automatically execute as programmed, but
not to render subjective judgments or to include elements from outside the
blockchain. . Kleros token acts as a 'Schelling token’ which aligns the incentives of
jurors staking in the kleros court to make fair decisions. Jurors for each case are
randomly chosen from a pool of jurors that hold the necessary skills. Jurors are
based around the world and do not know each other. So, each can build their own
perspective and decision. If jurors vote coherently, jurors are rewarded, and
penalized if their decision is biased. Web3 allows scaling the number of cases
processed compared to traditional justice at a fraction of the cost and time. They
have thus far solved +1200 disputes and have 764 active jurors.

76
fe: SourceCred

SourceCred makes nuanced contributions more visible and rewardable. They
build systems to serve community members and flow value across these. As
communities use SourceCred, a node graph is generated based on their
contributions. Their built-in algorithm helps determine how much value
contributions add to a project. Once a contribution is made to a project, an
amount of Cred is assigned based on how much value it brought to the project
(the assigned value of Cred to each contribution is decided by the community).

This Cred flows from the contribution to all the people and other contributions
that made that specific contribution happen. Now you can imagine this graph
growing connected by lines that flow Cred around the nodes based on what
enabled what to occur. The more edges one contribution has to other important
contributions in the project, the more Cred flows into it. https://
cred.sourcecred.io/#/explorer

NEN] GardensDAO

Gardens is a plug-and-play DAO governance framework that gives organizations
and movements a sustainable, regenerative token economy for funding public
goods. # of Gardens DAOs: 22. Gardens are built around a Covenant, which lays
out the community's mission and acceptable behavior within the DAO. Each
Garden has a Common Pool from which any community member can propose
funding from which will be approved through Conviction Voting, with a
decentralized arbitration court, Celeste, protecting the Garden from bad actors.

77
ata

fA °
re Worldcoin [not Launched |

é&

Worldcoin aims to onboard as many people as possible to a collectively owned
currency to achieve equal opportunity for all. The strategy is to give everyone a
share of it for free. A major challenge is ensuring that every person on board is a
human and that they have not claimed their free share of Worldcoin already to
avoid double claims.

Proving "unique-humanness” without managing privacy has been an ever-
present challenge. Through a device called the Orb, they can capture the
biometrics of a person’s eye and convert it to a unique irreversible numeric
identifier code. Although the image is deleted, every capture of this user’s eyes
will produce the same identifier. Yet, it is impossible to recreate the image of an
eye from the identifier. A certificate is generated to create a Worldcoin wallet
only the first time a user signs up, therefore avoiding duplicate claims.

Naturally, privacy is a key concern. However, this unique identifier code from the
biometric scan is not stored or linked to any user’s wallet, or transactions, at any
time.

Worldcoin aims to produce thousands of Orbs to connect as many humans as
possible to a commonly owned crypto network. They rely on these Orbs to be
managed by local entrepreneurs distributed across cities, rural communities, and
bioregions and whom are most familiar with their communities to aim for a
distribution that represents a diverse, global group of people. The more people
there are that collectively hold and use the same currency, the more useful that
currency becomes for each participant. Hence, Orb Operators earn rewards for
each sign up and on average, one operator signs-up 1060 users per week. Field
tests are being established across Chile, Kenya, Indonesia, Sudan, and France.
The project has not launched yet and we are yet to see how it evolves.

78
wa
<< XO

ON

WebS is still nascent and we there is
still exploration to be done on how
technologies can sustainably design for
human thriving and the alignment of
incentives through global coordination
structures. In order to care for a global
commons, these ImpactDAOs apply research

theory to practice.
Cc Curve Labs

Curve Labs designs modular pieces of new organizational frameworks that work
for both people and the environment. They research, design, implement, and
assemble composable designs for digital cooperatives, complementary
currencies, and open-source carbon offset protocols, with web3 financial tooling
like bonding curves that facilitate liquid and sustainable ecosystems. The
CurveLabs team has played a significant role in creating projects like Toucan,
Kolektivo, and PrimeDAO. The core approach to their work is always from the
perspective of composable and sovereign design exploring how to combine
open-source blockchain primitives to create novel organizations.

A vast part of their research focuses on how can we tokenize a new class of
regenerative natural assets to accurately reflect the underlying current material
realities of those assets through Green of Nature-Based Currencies. Curve Labs’
research also explores how to apply this tokenomic framework to specific natural
species like Posidonia Herbarium in Neptune, considered to be one of the most
important ecosystems in the Mediterranean.

Curve Labs’ Natural Capital Assets Taxonomy research provides approaches on
how nature can be classified and valued within our financial system based. This
taxonomy will closely represent a living system as an adaptable taxonomy of
natural assets in alignment with web3 and ecological principles. Dive into their
blogs and projects to explore a wide range of tools, frameworks and designs like
cryptospheric ecotechnics (monetary currencies in service of our biosphere),
decentralized negotiation prottocols or composable data markets can be
implemented in real-life applications.

82
,1=G Token Engineering Commons

Token Engineering explores how we can design social communities, economic
models, and flows of value for organizations that serve the collective purpose of
the commons in alignment with individual success. It is the Schelling Point to
design tools, standards, and methodologies, and to provide funding, for the
emerging token engineering field. Just like other public good infrastructures (e.g.
bridges), our future economic systems also need to be designed to be reliable
under widely varying conditions.

If we can coordinate around standardized tools, processes, and best practices in
complex system design, we can continue to safely experiment and improve the
reliability of infrastructure networks in web3. TEC offers free courses, research
initiatives, and workshops on topics like DAO Rewards Systems and Token
Engineer Fundamentals so that more people can become skilled in designing
systems that support and care for our shared resources.

TEC’s work is inspired by Elinor Ostrom’s research which explored the concepts
of holistic governance mechanisms like conviction voting and disputable voting.
TEC focuses on iteratively applying that research to their own community. Part of
this exploration involves launching an economy with an Augmented Bonding
Curve. The ABC combines elements of crowdfunding with a set of collective
decision making processes over the use of communal funds.

83
\)) Commons Stack

Commons Stack builds commons-based micro-economies, realigning individual
with collective incentives. The Commons Stack develops a toolkit of mechanisms
& interoperable web3 components that any community can leverage to raise and
allocate shared funds, make decisions, and monitor progress in supporting the
commons. Think of it as developing a modular ‘techstack’ to raise funds, make
governance decisions, allocate capital, and measure impact. As they help more

communities implement this stack they engage in continuous intentional
experimentation and open-sourcing learnings.

The Augmented Bonding Curve (ABC) is the first modular piece that The
Commons Stack is launching. ABC acts as a value-transfer interface between a
commons and the rest of the world. ABC have specific design attributes like a
vesting period where burning tokens is initially disabled, slowly unlocking tokens
in correlation to how much capital has been allocated to fund projects, and a
cash-out exit tax that recirculates to the shared treasury. These attributes align
token ecosystems and group behaviors towards the maintenance of public
goods. The value of public goods — including the work that goes into developing
them — is able to be stored, measured, grown, and rewarded.

The Commons Stack focused the past year to implement the ABC and building a
cultural framework that (following Elinor Ostrom’s work) prioritizes caring for the
commons. Token Engineering Commons can serve as a framework for launching
a sustainable community of independent projects advancing new research fields
in this case, token engineering. After launching the TEC community, the
Commons Stack will vote on a community to launch next.

84
RC RadicalxChange

RadicalxChange explores the advancement of plurality, equality, community, and
decentralization through building community and education about democratic
innovation. They research and implement products to upgrade democracy,
markets, data economy, the commons, and identity. Data dignity, quadratic voting,
and quadratic funding are some of their most well-known contributions.

Data dignity explores how people should have the power to collectively bargain
over their data, to make joint decisions regarding its use, and receive appropriate
compensation. Data dignity is put into practice through Ocean Protocol.
Intersectional social identity aims to embody human’s social and multi-
dimensional characteristics. Each person has a digital journal with their
identifying information. (Only that individual has access the complete data
stored). If a person inputs X in their digital journal, each participant also stores the
set of other participants who also keep copies of X. Participants store a degree of
credit which they can offer as “social collateral” to confirm an identity statement
of another person. Identify protocols like Democracy Earth and Idena use
concepts like these for their platforms.

Quadratic voting is when voters can allocate budgets of voice credits across
decisions to reflect the intensity of their convictions and the actual counted votes
are a square root of the allocated voice credits. This mitigates the tyranny of the
majority over minority groups. Quadratic funding is a more democratic way to
signal the preference of the crowd to fund public goods. In the quadratic funding
model, a common fund matches individual contributions to a project. A matching
formula ensures common funds go to projects that are most valuable to a larger
group rather than projects supported by a few wealthy backers. Gitcoin leads
their grants round with this mechanism. RadicalxChange’s research helps
projects across the web3 ecosystem and beyond to incorporate frameworks for a
more democratic commons.

85
©. Block Science

Block Science helps us understand how to design human-centred complex
systems that are positive-sum. They help with pre-launch design and evaluation
of ecosystem models based on simulation and analysis. The team combines
mathematical engineering, game theory, behavioral economics, network
interactions and computational analysis to create healthy sustanable ecosystems.
Block Science has developed cadCAD, a tool that allows you to create a Digital
Twin of a proposed framework to validate ideas prior to implementation such as
exploring the parameters of an Augmented Bonding Curve that Commons Stack
(mentioned on pg. 82) could implement. They actively develop and share
designed frameworks on their blogs (too many and complex to describe them all
here) including Risk-adjusted Bonding Curves for Financing Impact, and
researching approaches to engineer ethics at the core of web3.

oo

Other Internet

_

Other internet studies and builds social technology that aligns with and embeds
collective values and culture. ‘Social technology is the hardware and software
that determine how we organize and collectively live our lives. It is also the ideas,
knowledge, economics, and institutions that drive culture and sustain societies’.

Emerging technology has no playbook or known solution, Other Internet
consults, engages in a joint-discovery with values-aligned projects. They develop
communications strategies, product designs, social policies and interventions in
complex governance and community ecosystems. It is a group of people building
a deep understanding of technologically-driven change. They develop narratives,
initiatives, and software primitives that88upport a technologically-driven change
that is free, fun, peaceful, and equitable.

86
*,| MetaGov

MetaGov is a research collective that is designing tools for us to navigate
evolving applications of governance. In web3, communities have the right to self-
governance (the right to come together and organize their own social and political
insitutions). Self-governance is enabled by the architecture of the platform in
which people interact. Some of their work includes research papers like
composing games into complex institutions, Govbase lab building data sets in
online governance, or the Metagov gateway - an open-source API to connect
decision making tools to platforms where decisions need to be made.

NN Sovereign Nature

A home for exploration and development to reconfigure the relationship of
humans and nature, with an emphasis on sustainability and self-governance, at
the intersection of ecology, economy, and emerging technologies. They develop
technology and web3 tools that reconfigure, rebalance, and restore ecosystems
both internally as a team and externally through Hackathons. To date, they have
hosted two hackathons with over 30+ nature-based initiatives participating.
Sovereign Nature provides support to further incubate and develop these ideas.

A product under-development is a way to capture both extrinsic(i.e. ecosystem
services) and intrinsic (appreciative value from donations) value into a wallet
where value is locked "in nature”. For example, we can capture and store the
dynamic value of specific living species of a networked ecosystem or ecosystem
service to balance and regulate the climate. This value is then redistributed to
actors (communities/rangers/nature-stewards) that are restoring the ecosystem
where these species live. This framework of identity, value generation, and
capture is being established on a decentralised eco-centric governance model.

87
V Values Index | Not Launched |

Values Index is building a crypto index fund that incorporates environmental,
social, and governance (ESG) criteria. They are still developing the approach, but
the first phase will be an open-source database for ESG metrics in web3. The aim
is to collaboratively collect data on leadership, boards, employees, social
following, GitHub contributions, proof-of-stake, carbon offsets, and funded D&l
initiatives to inform an industry-standard scoring methodology for the ESG
impact of web3 projects & protocols. Finally, they'll build products that enable
people to invest in projects & protocols aligned with their values.

S¢ Crowdmuse [not Launched |

An open-source collaboration platform with forkable, regenerative business
models called “smart workflows.” Crowdmuse researches, pilots, and deploys
smart workflows on chain so the community can contribute to existing projects,
or fork their own local versions of sustainable supply chains, circular products,
net zero emission initiatives, and regenerative communities.

Innovating smart workflows includes building web3 primitives to enhance
dynamic value creation/distribution and evolutionary knowledge networks. It
realigns incentives for open-source, collaborative R&D, and project development.
The first smart workflow is a sustainable fashion brand and supply chain that
brings together fashion designers, tailors, recycling manufacturers, and fast-
fashion corporations to build hyperlocal supply chains for upcycled and recycled
fashion brands.

88
These ImpactDAOs are marketplaces that
create avenues for funding other
ImpactDAOs. These New Giving Economies
are the first capital that many new impact

projects get.
(oe Giveth.io

Giveth is building a culture of giving embedded in abundance - to reward those
who give. Projects benefit from receiving 100% of the fund, and donors benefit
from receiving GIV and can increase their rewards by stacking in the GlVfarm.
Donors who give to verified projects -those who prove they provide a valuable
public good- receive continuous stream of GlVback tokens to continue giving to
other projects (think tax-deductible donations without the paperwork and
bureaucratic hassle). Those with GIV tokens can participate in decision-making
on the Giveth ecosystem.

Giveth’s long term vision is to empower initiatives to develop their own
regenerative microeconomics. [This is not yet live but a promising concept we
wanted to include]. First, a curation system would allow users to stake their GIV
on projects they care about, signaling support while earning a yield. A successful
project in the GlVcuration will eventually get its own GIV-collateralized bonding
curve, called a ‘Gurve’.

For donors supporting projects with a Gurve, their GlVbacks are split: donors get
some GiV and the rest goes to the Gurve, minted as ‘project tokens’. Volunteers
and the team can also earn project tokens through contributions and once the
Gurve is live, the projects can use voting systems to govern their donations. With
Gurves, a successful project on Giveth will be able to become a sustainable DAO,
governing its own economy, with its supporters as stakeholders and donors as
impact investors

As of today, there are more than 900 verified projects on the platform. Since

March 2021 there have been a total of 9,547 donations from 3462 unique donors
for a total of $615,445.94 to projects working on public goods.

92
\ Angel Protocol

Less than 60% of charities have enough saved in their reserves to cover more
than one year of operating costs. Angel protocol’s platform enables charities to
receive low-risk, high yield perpetual endowments.

All donations are invested in DeFi products currently earning ~ 20% annula yield
for partner non-profits. Donors can choose what percentage of their donation
goes directly to the non-profit versus to the endowment. There are 130 charities
onboarded, over $6M donations in endowments, $1.5M raised for climate
change, $500K sent for Philippines disaster relief, $200K raised for Ukraine, and
80 Angel Alliance giving partners.

& DoinGud

The DoinGud platform aims to empower creators to tap into sources of income
while supporting social impact causes they care about. Creators can upload their
work to the platform where curators and collectors can discover new art
creations. Social causes can sign up to the platform to receive a portion of the
proceeds artists choose to donate to.

Their Ocean Drop sale to support Open Earth’s foundation work raised $61K to
support the development of blockchain tools to enforce illegal activity in ocean
conservation zones and implement ecosystem service credits for financing
marine conservation starting with a pilot project in the Cocos Island marine
sanctuary.

93
@ Unchained Fund

Unchained Fund raises and distribute funds for humanitarian aid quickly,
transparently, and efficiently. Their efforts have been focused in on-the ground
humanitarian needs in Ukraine. They partnered with a Ukrainian startup Weld
Money which enables anyone to pay with crypto with a paycard, just like you
would do with a regular bank account. Through this paycard, Unchained Fund can
send direct aid to families in Ukraine. Unchained raised $7,585,546 and
distributed $3,778,229 so far to 9015 applicants. Areas of donations include
refugee support, food, communications, protective equipment, medicine, and
direct transfer aid.

ewe
ve Endaoment

Endaoment has directed $38.5M crypto donations to nonprofits, given $21.8M in
grants, and supported 1.5M nonprofits. Donors can directly fund nonprofits or
donate to a community fund. Partnering with Circle, they wire payments to
organizations through USDC stablecoins or via wire payments directly to US bank
accounts. All contributions are tax-deductible.

rae) PactDAO

PactDAO is forming a coalition of mutual aid organizations to build a peer-to-peer
reciprocity network of goods, skills, and services through social tokens powered
by confidence amongst members. Mutual aid enables the community to rely on
each through non-financialized means instead of on capitalism. Pact has
deployed $12K to local, grassroots organizations in NYC.

94
Ss Goldtinch

Goldfinch unlocks lending to anyone in the world. Their decentralized credit
protocol for crypto loans without collateral expands access to capital in emerging
markets. They are serving 200k+ borrowers across India, Nigeria, Southeast Asia,
and others. Currently, many lending protocols require overcollateralization
preventing many borrowers in the world fom participating. Goldfinch uses a
concept called trust through consensus where borrowers show creditworthiness
based on the collective assessment of backers, liquidity providers, and auditors
to allocate capital. They have $82,568,598.95 in active loans.

© PopcornDAO

Popcorn Network creates yield-generating DeFi products for users to earn from
their cryptoassets and redistributing a portion to impact causes. They distribute
34% oft their fees to social impact organizations chosen by the token holders.
Popcorn’s dashboard calculates emissions and directs a portion of their fees
(~2%) to Patch.io projects for fund carbon offset projects.

G) Good Dollar

GoodDollar is an anti-poverty protocol and DAO that creates an ongoing UBI
stream flow to everyone who signs up as a human. Users can also stake with
GoodDollar. They have streamed $50,000 UBI to more than 300,000 people.
GoodDollar wraps around yield-generating decentralized finance protocols.
Those funds are used to mint a reserve-backed crypto-asset (G$), which is used
for yield-payouts and distributed daily as digital basic income to users.

95
Culture
and
Education
Much of learning is experiential. These
ImpactDAOs create cultural conduits for
education and community. Students take an
active role in crafting and creating the
content and educational experience.
Similarly, communities can craft the

environments they live and share in.
(6) Kernel

Kernel is an experiential, 8-week exploration of the depths of web3 that explores
questions that care about the nature of the work we do and how it can help the
people we care about.

This open, peer-to-peer network of humans exploring web3 and re-creating the
experience one Block (cohort) at a time, Kernel explores the technical concepts
of how blockchain operates while grounding those concepts in human principles.
As systems are built, there should be trust, shared value, inclusivity, and aligned
incentives, while also empowering the scaling of abilities. Kernel’s content
encourages us to ask better questions and to always consider our intentions first
with humility, honesty, and intentional service. By pursuing one’s own Adventure,
or by participating in a Guild guided by other fellows, each cohort experiences the
knowledge in full participation and exploration.

Over the past two years, Kernel has completed 5 cohorts and there are now over
1,000 Kernel Fellows throughout web3. Kernel’s open-sourced 8-module, 16-
lesson syllabus is a comprehensive and expansive lens on Web3 that
demonstrates how by collectively co-creating a set of projects and technologies,
can regeneratively cultivate a web to enrich our shared commons.

Pot? Protein

An incubator for regenerative projects to develop in an ecosystem that
encourages the positive growth of people and ideas. Protein aims to discover how
to best quantify and measure the impact of web3 projects. Legacy models for
growth are often extractive, exploitative, and winner take-all, and they do not take
into account their detrimental effects on the shared commons. Similar to the
integral functions of protein to the human body, as an ImpactDAO Protein aims to
support the regenerative development and growth of its community projects.

98
foreaw DreamDAO

Dream DAO is creating a path for Gen Z to explore and meaningfully contribute to
the web3 x social impact ecosystem. Dream DAO provides diverse, global Gen
Zers (15-20 years old) around the globe with the training, funding, and
mentorship to become civic innovators. 41 builders are laying the groundwork for
the DAO and its educational experience by developing governance, web3
learning materials, and establishing partnerships for future projects.

Members enter as Builders, grow as Explorers, and take-off via a Launch Year.
Biweekly “Learning Together” sessions feature a community member or guest
lecture on a web3 concepts that can bring us closer to a Solarpunk future. The
Explorers program will place place 10-15 builders in impact-driven web3
organizations. The Launch Program will provide resources for one year to those
ready to dive into web3 x social impact full-time.

@ Forefront

Forefront acts as a launchpad for web3 explorers to learn and create communities
driven by social tokens. The main northstar, however, is to nurture human
flourishing. They recently strongly highlighted the concept of DAO rhythms. In
their Off-Season the community took time to re-align, internalize learnings and
assess their priorities and focus on contributor well-being. Well-being is
supported through exploring polarities at the Individual level (autonomy vs
contextual awareness) and Organizational level (decentralization vs coherence
through focus and designed structures. Specific projects include developing
enriching contributor experiences other DAOs can learn from; research, deep
storytelling, and curation for social tokenized communities; and building products
to support social tokenized communities.

99
@\ The DAOist

The DAOist supports collaboration in all its forms: the cultural shift that DAOs
enable, a lifestyle lead through purpose, and the tenets of ownership,
collaboration, and openness. Projects and efforts to produce DAQOs through
cultural public goods is governed are Dawn DAO, which is in-itself co-organised by
individuals who belong to multiple DAOs. Through IRL co-living spaces, events,
and media, the DAOist explores the collaborative possibilities across DAOs.

Metahubs are co-creation spaces where DAOists can meet for team bonding,
collaboration strategies, and brainstorming. The first Metahub is located in Lisbon
and is active since April 2022. Art, tech, and policy residencies will be hosted
there to further explore DAO2DAO collaborations though in real life co-living
experiences. The DAOist events, Global Governance Gatherings, and smaller
meetups create space for members across DAOs to deepen bonds, engage in real
conversations, ask hard questions, and tackle shared challenges. These events
have been organized to date in Paris, Lisbon, Mexico, Barcelona, and Amsterdam.

Through media they produce, The DAOist team narrates different layers of how
collaboration and co-creation can be embed as a lifestyle within the strategic
scope of a DAO roadmap through content, videos, etc. A shared leadership stake
in DAOist efforts through “Ambassadorships” is another layer of collaboration
where outside DAOs focused on creating public goods can become part of the
DAOist roadmap. Current Ambassadors include Giveth, PrimeDAO, Celo, and
Eleven Yellow.

100
a CabinDAO

CabinDAO is a network that focuses on how can we build decentralized cities
with shared governance, culture, and community across independent physical
nodes. With an emphasis on IRL residencies and retreats for digital communities,
the DAO owns 50 acres of land and hosts DAO retreats and operates residency
programs in order to share solarpunk learnings and tools for coordination.

Crypto Culture & Society

CCS is building the liberal arts of crypto by exploring the impact of crypto on
culture and society. CCS aims to solve three main issues in the education system:
a) students often pay high tuition and take out loans to attend college and yet
have barely any say on where those funds are spent; b) online courses are good
alternatives to IRL classes but are mostly focused on practical skills and lack
community, network, and real-time collaboration opportunities; and c) internships
and apprenticeships provide concrete experience, but in a very narrow scope
pertaining to the tasks at hand.

In a learning DAO, students co-create the experience. They can also experiment
with new reward structures such as turning workshop content into research
material that guest speakers can share with the broader community and
monetize. CCS has had two cohorts of students to date. Their most recent
semester focused on how we design our digital futures. Discussions explored
topics like “Humane DAOs, Humane Products” and “The Evolution of Community-
owned Resources.” The curriculum includes social experiences, elective courses,
and tracks through which students can create content for future cohorts.

101
® The Ready

Since 2015, The Ready has been operating as a self-managing consultancy,
helping organizations develop more human and adaptive ways of working. Today
they translate that expertise to support DAOs that explore emergent, self-
managing, fluid organizational design. Within their framework, The Ready helps
DAOs create a fertile space for inspiration and participation that improves DAO
contributor performance and the contributor experience.

The Ready offers consulting for DAOs. The novelty is that change happens in a
collaborative design and co-creation between DAO teams and The Ready to pilot,
iterate, and evolve new ways of working. Their frameworks on how improved
decision making, dynamic budgeting, and helping leaders “get out of the way”
can allow cultures to emerge is available through podcasts and blog posts.

II4- Twoplus [te tavones |

Empowers digital communities to thrive and create positive impact by putting
mental fitness at the core of collaboration. Through ttheir community and
cohort-based course, TwoPlus explores, designs and implements best practices
to shape DAOs as strong mental fitness communities. The course blends
indiviidual self- managing frameworks with higher organizational-wide practices.

O

~~ Matives in Tech

Natives in Tech aims to cultivate an ecosystem of Native technologists that build
free and open source technology for the use of Native communities. Natives in
Tech DAO members host and take part in conferences and create opportunities
for students of Native communities to learn about tech.

102
+ WellnessDAO

WellnessDAO aims to prioritize health and wellness practices throughout web3.
They currently offer meditation and yoga sessions as well as group accountability
tools. They plan to expand next into IRL centers and retreat offerings where DAO
members can attend in planned various around the world.

(> Ecodao

Ecodao is a web3 gallery to support the environment through regular NFT drops.
The proceeds are divided up with 50% going to the artist, 25% to ecological
causes, and 25% to the DAO.

Verses

Verses is an evolving space to articulate visions for a flourishing future. Verses
collaborates on planting seeds towards an interdependent cyberspace. As such,
member contribution is fluid and varies by project. Verses works on objects
(artifacts, frameworks, mapping ecosystems), philosophies (navigating
contradiction, permitting sensemaking, building a prefigurative politics for
pluriversality), fostering a explorative community, capacity (enabling others to
create predistributing and redistributing resources).

Verses experimental on collective possibility, imagination, and agency includes

pieces like A Declaration of the Interdependence of Cyberspace, exploring the
path Towards a Digital Pluriverse - a world where many worlds may fit.

103
© Meta Gamma Delta

Alongside mentorship and access to community, MGD has distributed $300k+ to
fund women-led projects ranging from NFTs, to DAOs, to DeSci, and is looking to
launch a $1M fund to stream UBI for women while they go through their
onboarding in a Web3 fellowship program.

S Surge Women

Focused on educating and securing women's place in web3, Surge Women offers
content, an all-female web3 jobs board, and an upcoming Surge Passport that will
provide access to opportunities like free educational subscriptions, scholarships,
mentorships, financial tooling, & partnerships with mission aligned organizations.

AG HER DAO

HER DAO aims to increase innovation and opportunities for economic success
for women in Web3. Sponsored hacker houses allow early-career and
experienced women to hack together with mentorship to nurture talent. Women
can ideate and validate projects, build teams, and participate in conferences.

she256 She_256

She256 started as a DAO offering gatherings and educational resources for
women to participate in the web3 space. Now, their mentorship program has
linked over 900 young women with experienced professionals. Educational
initiatives include hackathons, coding boot camps, and workshops designed for
both middle-schoolers and postgraduates alike.

104
( ))

J
SS
DeSci
The value of knowledge increases with its
integration. In other words, new research is
not going to bring much value to the world
unless it is adopted by other people. So,
these ImpactDAOs aim to increase the access

and adoption of new knowledge.
& Molecule

Molecule offers a web3 marketplace for research-related IP and scalable
frameworks to build biotech DAOs. Their longterm goal is to decentralize the
ownership, financing, and governance processes for drug development. They
enable patient, researcher, and investor communities to directly fund, govern, and
own research-related IP. The IP-NFT enables new fundraising and collaboration
strategies. When researchers have to make the jump from grant funding for
basic research to other sources of funding in order to turn a discovery into a
product, early stage research often goes unutilized and the discovery of
important therapeutic breakthroughs is slowed down and often never reaches
potential patients.

Private companies, universities, and governments have funded research grants
and the development and market deployment of biotechnologies. By tokenizing
early stage IP and associated research projects, researchers and scientists are
newly empowered. Freed of having to patent early, researchers can now engage
stakeholder groups such as patients directly, collaborate with other researchers
to promote open science, and gain attention through a public marketplace. IP-
NFT allows different contributors to receive exposure to ownership in IP, in
exchange for work. Emerging bioDAOs could eventually start modularly
collaborating across different steps in a drug development pipeline. Molecule
helps other biotech DAQs with legal frameworks, tokenomic designs, and access
to liquidity through grants and token swaps to break the current Pharma models.
They aim to productized biotech DAO frameworks so anyone can build their own
biotech DAO, operationalize it, and leverage a large, open community of shared
talent, scientists, patients and funders. Biotech DAO builders can leverage
Molecule’s IP-NFT legal licensing frameworks and DAO _ organizational
frameworks. They will also be able to collaborate with and support academics via
Molecule’s marketplace.

108
@XY DeSci Foundation [not Launched |

Science needs to be reliable, transparent, independent, and openly accessible.
Desci foundation explore new ways to incentivize, evaluate, finance and share
science. Current incentives in curating and publishing studies prevent a focus on
important replication studies. Independent replication of empirical results is
critical to better explain for how the world works. Without replicability, novel
findings can be based on error or fabrication and we are relying on a single
source of truth. However, current publishing incentives place value in novelty not
replicability. With community owned journals, replication efforts could be
explicitly rewarded, given their importance for verifying the truth of reported
novel discoveries.

Publication is also broken monopolized by 5 big player and either call for “pay-for-
access” or “pay-for-publication”. Both rely on unpaid labour of scientists for peer-
reviews. Oopen access to scientific publications with rewards for peer reviews
are better alternatives. Incentives that reward truthful verification and report are
also potential ways to improve this. Desci Foundation aims for fast and
unbureaucratic financial support for future research too.

S ForesightDAO

Foresight Institute is a 30+ year-strong Bay Area science non-profit, that
advances a healthier future unlocked by bio, nano, neurotech, computing, and
space technologies. Initiating Foresight DAO will allow them to support early-
stage, interdisciplinary projects for sci-fi futures that are too ambitious for legacy
funders to take on. Incentives mechanisms will reward due diligence scientists
for their advice and mentorship as well as onboard the broadwiill also increase
value of grant offering technical tracks, fellowships, tech trees, and competitions.

109
\) VitaDao

VitaDAO is a community collectively funding and advancing longevity research.
35+ projects have been evaluated, $1.5m of longevity research funded, and $9m
in the treasury to fund research. VitaDAO will hold the legal IP rights to projects
funded and developed by the community, hence developing a growing portfolio
of IP NFTs. Designing Vita as a DAO enables a circular ecosystem where token
holders (who can gain tokens through conttributing work, funds, valuable
research data, or IP) can signal support for the funding of specific research
initiatives. The research will produce valuable, monetizable IP which will flow
back to the treasury of the DAO to fund more projects.

a@a

©oe LabDA

ee abDAO

LabDAO gathers around an open peer-to-peer marketplace, openlab, on which
computational and wet-lab services can be exchanged. Openlab enables the shift
from a centralized market with intransparent contract research organizations and
siloed research institutes towards an open peer-to-peer market for laboratory

services. The majority of fees generated on the exchange flow into open source
development of life science tools.

§ Opscienth

A competitive culture in academia prevents collaboration, data sharing,
reproducibility of studies, and efficient resource allocation that results in the
mimization of knowledge accessibility. Opscienth is a scientific ecosystem aiming
to unlocks data silos and democratize funding. Tools being designed include tools
to integrate scientific identity, reputation and credentials to web3, an open-
access data commons that can be queried, discovered, and analyzed, and
community conferences and research.

110
Git Involved
SZ
Osa

a £

“AS

ih

NN
=

A

Join the ImpactDAO. Game

This edition of this book was written by the GitcoinDAO Public Goods Funding
Workstream, Kevin Owocki, & Alejandra Borda (with pixels by the astounding
Octavian Todirut) -- Together, we’ve spent many months researching
ImpactDAQs through our work at Gitcoin & DreamDAO respectively.

That said, this book represents the limited vantage point of a handful of people.
Therefore, this edition of this book is an imperfect vessel for education about
ImpactDAQOs. For the next edition(s), we envision that a diverse group of
individuals could co-create resources about the Regenerative CryptoEconomics
design space. Inviting a wider set of participants to contribute will enable us to
explore the design space in a more inclusive, full, & decentralized way. In order to
facilitate this:

1. This book is licensed CC BY 4.0. You may permissionlessly fork this book,
make changes, and republish them with attribution as long as proceeds go to the
public good or charitable causes.

2. Join the telegram group ( https://t.me/+ORZ8joj8_AhjM215 ) to get involved in

authoring further editions. Check the pinned messages once you are there for
access to the ImpactDAO Database that Alejandra has put together.

1135
