on-chain

Impact networks

How Crypto Is Being Used To

Regenerate The World
Revised Edition of IMPACTDAOs

Culture

Education is crucial in the blockchain ecosystem, as there is an initial technological and
philosophical barrier to understanding even the basic concepts, let alone the intricacies
and nuances. It can remain an inaccessible enigma without proper explanations, tools, and
learning opportunities. Education-focused networks help bridge this knowledge gap,
fostering greater diversity and inclusion within the ecosystem.



To build a more positive-sum world, ensuring that as many people as possible can
understand, access, and participate in its creation is essential. By providing educational
resources, these networks empower individuals from all backgrounds globally to utilize
blockchain in multifaceted ways.

[On-Chain Impact Networks]
How Crypto Is Being Used To 

Regenerate The World

A GreenPill Network Writer’s Guild Publication

From the GreenPill Network

GREEN
PILL
On-Chain Impact Networks is V2 of ImpactDAOs (read V1 at greenpill.network) that
was published in April 2022. As the crypto ecosystem has evolved and shifted since
then, we wanted to create an updated version, hoping that others will continue to
update with V3, V4, and so on in the years to come. 


We opted to use the word network over DAO, as it reflects the shifting landscape of
the ecosystem, recognizing that not everything is a DAO and not all networks want to
be. A network can be a DAO, a protocol, a group of people, and any combo of these.


On-Chain Impact Networks was written, published, and designed by the GreenPill
Networks writer’s guild. It is our first stab at writing a comprehensive book in a
decentralized and open manner.


This version includes those who are building, leveraging, exporting, and using crypto
to help create impact in their fields of focus.  
This isn’t an exhaustive list, but it was inspired by Perchy's (@TheFutureisDAO)
Regentopia artwork. We acknowledge that we will have missed organizations doing
impactful work. Think of this as a starting place to learn more about the impact
networks that are forming and rippling out into the world rather than a definitive list.
3

We’re building a CoordiNation
across Nations & Cultures.
CoordiNation (noun): a network-society that exports regenerative digital infrastructure
to the world.

Editor: Riley Blackwell



Writers and researchers: Sarah Smith, Kate Goheen, Ifeanyi Princewill, 

Lana Dingwall, Trinity Morphy, Matt Strachman, Anthony Amio, Eunice Eyo,
Rayne Leach, Cauê Tomaz 



Designers: Anthony Luong, Ashna Srivastava, Sarah Smith



Project leads: Lana Dingwall, Izzy Lawernce-Onwuzurike



A special thank you to Kevin Owocki for encouraging us to write V2 and Sejal
Rekhan for spearheading the GreenPill Network community's inception.






David Ehrlichman's book, "Impact Networks," explores how networks can drive
social change through collaboration and systemic impact. It provides practical
insights on building and sustaining networks based on trust, shared purpose,
and collective leadership. Impact Networks serves as a guide for leveraging
network power to address complex challenges and create lasting change.



Onchain Impact Networks is about the projects that are putting these insights
to work in web3 as of 2024.
greatly in scope.

While the books may have similar titles, they differ

We recommend readers check out David Ehrlichman's book,

"Impact Networks," if they are building an Impact Network of their own. 



- Kevin Owocki 




4

Table of Contents

A note From The GreenPill Network Writer’s Guild   

6

On-chain Impact Networks
 

9

Blockchain



11

Decentralized Science 



13

Community Funding Protocols: UBI, Public Goods, Art, Non-Profits and Beyond



23

Regenerative Finance (ReFi)



35

Climate and Environmental REGENeration 



45

Culture 
 

57

Education 
 

65

Infrastructure 



75

Impact Measurement 



85

Closing Thoughts

95

This book contains networks that show how crypto can 

help regenerate the world in their respective fields

5

A note From The GreenPill Network Writer’s Guild

In

an

era

where

technology

continues

to

reshape

every

facet

of

our

lives

at

an

increasing speed, the concept of an Impact Network stands out as an example of how
we can use it for good.

At its core, an Impact Network leverages the decentralized and

accessible nature of blockchain technology to create systems that facilitate positive,
tangible change in the world. This book is a small step in exploring the numerous
ways blockchain has the potential to address some of the most pressing challenges of
our

time,

ranging

from

scientific

innovations

to

financial

resource

distribution

to

climate change and beyond.



Our goal is to showcase tangible ways crypto is being used to create positive sum
outcomes

and

the

amazing

networks

of

communities

behind

them.

We

explored

some of the fastest-growing impact domains so that even if you’re new to any of
these

categories,

important

here

is

it’s

clear

that

no

there’s
matter

something

how

much

for
time

everyone
you

can

to

dig

dedicate

into.

What’s

to

hobby,

a

network, or research outlet, impact is possible and can also be fun.




Blockchain is not just about cryptocurrencies; it has the potential to revolutionize
many industries. - Vitalik Buterin

6

The categories you’ll find in this book are:


Decentralized Science (DeSci) democratizes science by using blockchain to provide
open access to research data and decentralized funding, fostering a more inclusive,
human-forward scientific community.


Community Funding Protocols empower communities to collectively fund initiatives
that align with their values, from Universal Basic Income (UBI) schemes to public
goods, art, open-source software, and more.


Regenerative Finance (ReFi) prioritizes sustainability and positive environmental
impact. ReFi utilizes blockchain to create financial models that regenerate natural
ecosystems and promote long-term sustainability.


The themes of Climate and Environmental REGENeration explore how blockchain is
used to combat climate change and restore ecological balance. These include carbon
credit trading platforms and decentralized conservation efforts, among many more.


Blockchain’s potential for Culture and Education includes protecting cultural
heritage, promoting artistic expression, and providing access to quality education for
underserved communities.


Infrastructure development benefits from blockchain-based solutions to build
resilient and inclusive systems, such as decentralized energy grids or smart cities.


Finally, Impact Measurement is essential for understanding the true impact of
blockchain initiatives. While measuring impact is often a moving target, these tools
and teams are on the right track to building more intuitive solutions.

7

When the writers of this book came together to showcase these varied networks, we
asked them for things that have helped in their journey through the impact industry.
Many agreed that finding notable events in the news or their local towns and cities
needed some form of impact to help them relate their work in blockchain to tangible
goings on in their lives. These have proven to be excellent conversation starters and
ways to bring real needs into new, exciting web3 projects.


On-Chain Impact Networks is a testament to the power of collective action and
technological innovation. As you read through this book, we hope to inspire you to
engage with the blockchain ecosystem, contribute to impactful projects, and explore
how you can leverage this technology to create a more sustainable and equitable
world. Whether you are a seasoned crypto enthusiast or new to the space, everyone
has a role in this journey towards a positive-sum future.


‘Blockchain is a tool for reimagining the future and building a more equitable
society.’

-Vitalik Buterin

8

On-chain Impact Networks
On-chain Impact Networks are coordinating across nations, cultures, industries,
languages, and beyond to create something meaningful in their zone of work. 


The impact can be felt within the network’s community and ripples out into the world
in significant ways.


People’s definition of ‘impactful’ varies depending on their lens, so we wanted to
compile a book that helps highlight varying types of impact because they matter and
feed into each other whether we know it or not.

9

An impact DAO or impact network is a group of individuals coordinating to create
systems change in alignment with pluralistic values and vision. - Ron Rivers


A group of people whose work produces societal benefit that is greater than the cost
incurred in achieving those outcomes - Devansh Mehta


A project that generates a positive impact on society - Fabian Cripto


Using web3 tech and specifically distributed consensus mechanisms to empower
social infrastructure and positive impact in communities and societies as a whole Gareth Farry


The question is, what is the meaningful impact, and for whom? I think people are
addressing the societal issues closest to them from their perspectives (developers
solving for funding OSS, etc), and that, from their very valid perspective, is a
meaningful impact. - LauNaMu

10

Impact Networks
Blockchain
Blockchain itself is an impact network as it has allowed people to organize, connect,
and share all kinds of resources in ways we haven’t been able to before. Like how the
internet brought about a new wave of connection, building innovation and growth,
blockchain is the next iteration.


For those new to blockchain, also referred to as web3, crypto, or onchain, here is a look
at how this technology is being used.


Blockchain technology is reshaping how individuals and communities collaborate.
This decentralization of decision-making paves the way for a more equitable, inclusive,
and resilient future.


Crypto-economic systems can be designed to incentivize positive-sum prosocial
behavior with built-in transparency and a trustless environment of distributed public
ledgers. These multi-disciplinary models align individual interests with the overall
health of the community.

9
11

For those new to Crypto 


An impact DAO or impact network is a group of individuals coordinating to create
systems change in alignment with pluralistic values and vision. - Ron Rivers


ByA decentralizing
decision-making,
we cansocietal
tap into
the collective
wisdom.
Smart
group of people
whose work produces
benefit
that is greater
than the
cost
contracts
agreements
the terms
incurred-inself-executing
achieving those
outcomes -with
Devansh
Mehta

defined in code - streamline
complex processes and eliminate reliance on third-party intermediaries to maximize
efficiency.
and accountability
are built
combined
A project Trust
that generates
a positive impact
on among
society -diverse
Fabian participants,
Cripto


with the verifiability of on-chain coordination. In this emerging frontier, trust is
redefined.
It is not
in a central authority
butconsensus
embeddedmechanisms
within the system.


Using web3
techplaced
and specifically
distributed
to empower
social infrastructure and positive impact in communities and societies as a whole WeGareth
are Farry


rediscovering the cross-cultural mechanisms of pre-monetary resource
allocation practices that have unified local communities for longer than the postindustrial
revolution
has isexisted.
The success
of these
digital frontiers
requiresare
The question
is, what
the meaningful
impact,
andnew
for whom?
I think people
wisdom
in the
intersecting
life, art, and(developers
society.
addressing
theobscured
societal mathematical
issues closest constants
to them from
their perspectives
More
concretely,
we are OSS,
building
of the
research
American
Nobelperspective,
Prize-winning
solving
for funding
etc),offand
that,
from of
their
very valid
is a
economist
Elinor
Ostrom
on bottoms-up governance of the shared management of
meaningful
impact.
- LauNaMu
common-pool resources like forests, fisheries, and groundwater basins. Balanced and
sustainable collaboration with the whole in mind is supercharged with decentralized
technology and Impact Networks.

10
12

Decentralized
Science

“The decentralized science (DeSci) movement is
disrupting the traditional research economy by
introducing novel coordination, incentivization,
and

verification

mechanisms

to

sustain

and

disseminate open science.”  


-Stephanie Dunbar


“DeSci uses web3 technology to establish a
secure, lasting record of scientific
contributions that enables fair credit
allocation, simplifies transactions, allows
worldwide resource sharing, and overcomes
economic barriers.” 


- Vincent Weisser & Ella McCarthy-Page

14

Decentralized Science (DeSci)
A central tenet of science—the spark of curiosity and discovery—has been
unintentionally stifled by a systemic shift toward bureaucratic policies that favor
established ideas over novelty. As a result, traditional science has become slow,
unoriginal, competitive, and political. Conservative funding metrics and fear of
plagiarism have promoted siloed research approaches and competition for patents.
Decentralized science (DeSci) is a movement that incentivizes collaboration, risktaking, and creativity. It aims to transform how scientific research and funding work
through several innovative mechanisms.

 

Funding is often challenging in traditional research due to risk-averse funding
parameters, lengthy application processes, and institutional bias. Institutions are
incentivized to keep their discoveries private out of fear of data plagiarism. Grant
agencies favor established researchers and push scientists to produce results
continually. Additionally, there is pressure to produce significant results, often leaving
insignificant findings unpublished, known as the file-drawer effect. This pressure leads
researchers to design cautious experiments and hypotheses, stifling creativity and
genuine experimentation.

 

Blockchain technology makes research data available, accessible, and credited to the
original source. It allows data to be read, shared, built upon, and easily replicated,
eliminating traditional institutional and geographical barriers to collaboration.
Researchers globally can access and contribute to a shared pool of knowledge,
fostering diverse perspectives and accelerating innovation.

15

 


The DeSci movement aims to complement rather than replace existing systems, offering an
alternative funding approach through crowdsourcing. Scientists can apply for grants for
their ambitious ideas, or individuals from the general population can propose specific
research avenues. DeSci uses governance processes through tokenized ownership to
allocate funding via community consensus. 

 

These processes promote a collaborative research approach, with scientists and laypeople
advocating for potential research avenues in traditionally undervalued or highly
experimental fields. Researchers can also obtain funding by selling fractional ownership of
possible intellectual property to a wide range of investors, allowing investors and
researchers to benefit directly from discoveries.

 

DeSci aims to create a more efficient, transparent, and equitable scientific ecosystem.
Below are some examples of how this movement has already started and ways in which
anyone interested can join. Science should be accessible to everyone, whether you are the
next Einstein or Marie Curie or simply a passionate supporter of a cause.

16

Bio.xyz



Bio.xyz, a biotech DAO accelerator, and DeSci meta-governance
layer

provide

funding

decentralized  


 science.

and
It

support

offers

a

to

innovators

launchpad,

in

resources,

mentorship, a shared network, and a comprehensive suite of
legal and smart contracts tailored for DeSci DAOs. Each
accelerator program includes a USDC $100,000 grant and token

 






launchpad. Each bio DAO can crowdfund its treasury by offering
tokens to its communities in exchange for bids to fund research
and development. The accelerator also provides 18 weeks of

dedicated support, including consulting and strategic advisory in tokenomics, tech, regulatory,
R&D, community, and operations.
Since 2018, Bio.xyz has led in decentralized science, creating vital infrastructure such as the
IP-NFT framework to manage intellectual property. Bio.xyz has successfully incubated and
accelerated biotech DAOs like VitaDAO, PsyDAO, ValleyDAO, AthenaDAO, HairDAO, CryoDAO,
and CerebrumDAO, collectively raising over $16.7 million.

AthenaDAO
AthenaDAO is a decentralized community of researchers, funders, and advocates dedicated to
advancing women's health research, education, and funding. The organization sources, funds,
and incubates translational research, supporting projects from discovery through licensing IP
assets and creating spin-out companies. Researchers benefit from access to comprehensive
legal, strategic, scientific, and market mentorship and support facilitated through the
community-held $ATH tokens. These tokens allow holders to determine IP development,
define support mechanisms, influence governance structures, and manage the AthenaDAO
treasury.



Since its inception in 2022, AthenaDAO has made significant
strides in women's health research, funding projects such as
targeting the cGAS-STING pathway to delay ovarian aging and
enhancing ovarian follicle survival and growth by targeting
the ISR. The organization has also contributed to publishing
several volumes of the Reproductive Health Report.
17

PsyDAO
PsyDAO aims to build a user-owned and operated psychedelic future, ensuring that
psychedelic intellectual property is freely traded, collectively owned, and responsibly
managed for the benefit of all humankind. Their goal is to redesign incentives and access
from the bottom up, focusing on people—patients, recreational users, and spiritual
communities—rather than centralizing ownership within organizations with misaligned
incentives. The organization uses pseudonymity and privacy-preserving technologies to
ensure that knowledge and research can be shared without revealing the identities of the
sender or recipient. Founded in 2022, PsyDAO funds research and provides small grants for
psychedelic innovations. With over 3,500 members, PsyDAO currently supports more than ten
psychedelic research projects.














HairDAO
HairDAO is an open-source R&D network
where patients and researchers collaborate to
develop new treatments for hair loss. Users
can anonymously log their treatment
experiences in the HairDAO app, contribute to
hair loss research, and earn HAIR tokens as a
reward. The community decides which research
projects receive funding, with academics and
informed community members encouraged to
propose projects. Voting on which projects to
support is done through holding HAIR tokens.
This democratic approach ensures diverse
perspectives are considered, fostering an
innovative research environment. Funded
projects include research on Thyrotropinreleasing hormone, Dutasteride, Twist-1 and 2i,
and YAP-1i. Patents submitted include T3
Liothyronine and T4 Levothyroxine, which
have shown measurable regrowth effects on
human scalp and hair follicles ex vivo.

VitaDAO
VitaDAO is a community-owned
collective that funds and supports
longevity science. Holders of the VITA
token choose which research projects to
support and contribute to in the fight
against age-related diseases. The
organization
primarily
funds
translational
research
and
is
particularly interested in “moonshot”
projects that can potentially make
revolutionary scientific contributions.
VitaDAO also occasionally funds more
“basic” research and other initiatives
aligned with the interests of the
LongBio community.

As of 2024, VitaDAO has deployed over
$4.6 million in funding, supported 23
research projects, evaluated over 200
projects, and currently has over $10
million in liquid funds.
18

CryoDAO
CryoDAO aims to advance cryopreservation research with high
potential to improve the field's quality and capabilities.
Cryopreservation has numerous applications, including organ
and human preservation. Currently, 80% of donor-to-patient
organs are wasted due to a lack of ability to preserve them.
Despite growing interest in cryopreservation, the field needs
more research projects with a high potential to increase the
quality and capabilities of cryopreservation. The CRYO token is
integral to funding and governing cryopreservation research. 









Holders gain voting rights within the ecosystem, directly influencing funding decisions and
strategic direction. In the first half of 2024, CryoDAO successfully closed a monumental
~$2.8M fundraise (1,108 ETH) with projects funded including Molecular Profiling and
Computational Modeling for Novel Cryoprotectants and high-viscosity solutions to mitigate
perfusion impairment.

ValleyDAO
ValleyDAO addresses critical climate and food challenges by funding and incubating academic
research and building a community in synthetic biology and industrial biotechnology. This
field uses biological organisms to sustainably produce products like animal-free meat,
nutrients, clothes, fuels, fertilizers, and medicine, essential for tackling climate change and
food security.
ValleyDAO enables community participation in assessing and voting on research projects.
Approved projects receive funding and support, and their intellectual property is
commercialized through startups or sub-licensing. Proceeds are shared with researchers and
re
reinvested by the DAO into future projects. Notable initiatives
include producing oils and fats in yeast, sustainable biofluorination
of molecules, and SynbioCAD software. In 2023, ValleyDAO secured
over $1M in funding through the launch of the GROW token, hosted
several events, funded its first project at Imperial College, and
provided translational support to BioHalo, a spin-out from Denmark
Technical University.

19

Cerebrum DAO










Cerebrum DAO is an open global community dedicated to advancing brain health and
preventing neurodegeneration, with a primary focus on Alzheimer's. This community funds
"moonshots" in brain health—high-risk, high-reward projects with revolutionary potential.
The key focus areas include neuroinflammation, metabolic alterations, reactive oxygen
species, mitochondrial dysfunction, and the blood-brain barrier.


Using the NEURON token, the community reaches a consensus on
which projects to support. Funds are allocated to the most
promising candidates to commercialize their research, and licensing
proceeds are shared between the researchers and the DAO. In
addition to funding research, Cerebrum DAO is forming product
partnerships, starting with a brain assessment and support app.

LabDAO
LabDAO is an online life science research collective offering open tools and infrastructure
for computational projects. Researchers can access BioML models, such as those for protein
binder design and protein folding, without setting up models locally. This enables immediate
experimentation with clearly defined input fields, access to all parameters, and the ability to
run multiple jobs in parallel. LabDAO ensures results are tracked, easily explored, and
downloadable. Each use of a computational biology tool on the Lab Exchange mints a token
that tracks the owner and details of the result.
The Lab Exchange, powered by Bacalhau and IPFS and inspired by the Common Workflow
Language, has actively expanded its toolset since 2021 with the help of community
contributions. Groups like UltraRare Bio leverage the platform to design small molecule
inhibitors for rare diseases. Available tools include mechanistic small molecule docking,
protein structure prediction, and small molecule language models.

20

Metagov















Metagov aims to enable better self-governance. Their vision is to work toward an empowered,
interconnected, and accountable governance layer for the internet. Their activities are supported
by the three mutually supporting pillars of Community, Research, and Operations to foster
collaborations on widely accessible, cutting-edge research. They have also funded governance
research through MetagovDAO, providing a platform for researchers and practitioners in online
governance to discuss their work through the Metagov Seminar.
Additionally, Metagov currently oversees various projects, including AI Palace (a residency for
open-source AI), Calm Technology (a standards body for mindful use of technology), DAOstar (the
standards body of the DAO ecosystem), Govbase Dataset (a set of research data sets in online
governance), OSS Transitions (exploring OSS accountability systems), PolicyKit (an engine for
building governance in online communities), Public AI (a new AI political economy), and Telescope
(a Discord bot supporting digital ethnography).

WaterLAB
WaterLAB is a project redefining water management by classifying and measuring regenerative
water attributes. Billions lack access to clean drinking water, and WaterLAB aims to bring
transparency, sustainability, and regenerative practices to the water industry. These practices
promote water neutrality and the transition to more sustainable, cost-efficient water supply
systems.
The project invests in water research and production projects using the RH2O token and a water
credit classification system. This system incentivizes regenerative water projects and supports
voluntary water markets within the WL global community. Since its inception in 2022, WaterLAB
has funded several water research projects and received support from three Gitcoin Grant Rounds.
It partners with organizations such as ReFiDAO, Gitcoin, and Regen Network.

21

Community
Funding
Protocols: UBI,
Public Goods,
Art, NonProfits and
Beyond

"The Protocol Guild is an experiment in public goods
funding that aims to align the incentives of core
protocol contributors with the continued stewardship of
the ecosystem by allowing these contributors to share in
the value created by their hard work." 


- Alex Stokes

"Now you have venture capital scale returns for
nonprofit causes." 


- Griff Green









“Rewriting

how

capital

flows

through

society

is

arguably the biggest unlock in crypto. As blockchains
compete for market share, we’re begging to see rapid
experimentation with novel forms of funding that grow
impact ecosystems”


- Sohpia Dew
24

Community Funding Protocols
On-chain tooling is changing how networks use crypto to build new and experimental
economic systems that support the well-being of many. These tools facilitate direct and
democratic (community) participation in funding processes ranging from universal basic
income to environmental conservation and open-source software development. By doing
so, they empower communities worldwide, enabling broad and targeted impacts that
address global inequalities and foster sustainable development. This is not just a technical
revolution but a social one, where technology serves as a tool for real-world change.

 

Traditionally, the responsibility for allocating funding and resources to public goods, social
and environmental needs, crisis aid, and open-source technology has fallen on
governments, charities, and non-profit organizations. This dependency often leaves many
vital causes—considered public goods because they are non-excludable and non-rivalrous
—at the mercy of political cycles, local economies, and fluctuating levels of individual or
corporate donations. Despite the good intentions, many crucial and impactful initiatives
remain underfunded or entirely unsupported. The advent of crypto introduces a significant
shift, offering tools such as governance tokens, staking mechanisms, liquidity pools, social
tokens, and memecoins. These DeFi instruments empower blockchains, protocols, DAOs,
networks, and communities to support important global causes effectively.

25

Projects are building innovative tools and creating new methods to fund initiatives that
deliver positive-sum benefits, fundamentally transforming our approach from a purely
financial system to new regenerative economies. These platforms leverage the potential of
DeFi for impact and profit vs just profit. Examples include staking Ethereum, LP yield,
short-term lending and investing, and using this money to fund public goods. Additionally,
creating memetokens and governance tokens provides a fresh funding source for projects
aimed at ecological restoration and community support, transforming popular digital
trends into tools for positive change. 

 

These platforms emphasize transparency and encourage democratic participation, allowing
community members to directly decide how funds are distributed, whether for artists who
drive cultural innovation, developers building open-source software, crisis aid, UBI, or
sustainable

efforts

focused

on

environmental

conservation

and

regeneration.

These

systems and tools help expand the funding landscape and integrate crucial areas like the
environment, public welfare, and the arts into a unified, financially regenerative ecosystem,
demonstrating that financial systems can effectively support and enhance collective wellbeing.

26

GoodDollar
GoodDollar

is

a

protocol

governed

by its

members

to

promote

decentralized

financial

education and access for all. To address global inequality, GoodDollar tackles the issue of
wealth

concentration

by leveraging

free

market

forces, social

investing

principles, and

decentralized finance (DeFi) tools. 









The

protocol

accessible

to

is

a

digitally

anyone

native,

worldwide

peer-to-peer

with

a

currency

smartphone

and

internet connection, fostering a more inclusive digital economy.

GoodDollar generates, funds, and distributes crypto Universal Basic Income (UBI) via its
token, G$—an ERC-20 digital asset built on the Ethereum blockchain. Nearly half a million
individuals from over 222 countries and territories have opened a GoodDollar digital wallet,
participating in the digital UBI economy.

Glo Dollar
Glo Dollar is a US-regulated and fiat-backed stablecoin company developed by the Glo
Foundation. Revenue is split between the Glo Foundation and its issuance partner, but the
Foundation donates its share to public goods and charity. Embedding philanthropy into
money means people can passively engage in charitable giving in the digital age. The project
went live in 2023, and there are $2.4 million and growing Glo Dollars in circulation, which
has enabled $1,393.77 in donations to GiveDirectly.

The recent upgrade to Glo Dollar 2.0 allows users to
vote

within

the

Glo App

where

the

generated yield

should be allocated, which includes fighting extreme
poverty,

combating

climate

change,

or

web3

public

goods. They will be adding more charitable causes on a
rolling basis, but currently, the options cover fighting
extreme poverty, supporting Web3 open-source code,
and addressing climate change. In an attempt to spur
the proliferation of the Glo Dollar, the next major steps
are a credit card collateralized with Glo Dollars and
integrating with multiple payroll providers.

27

Octant
Octant allows users to earn ETH rewards by funding public goods and projects they care
about using Golem's native ERC-20 token, $GLM. Octant aims to be the first self-sustaining
global public goods financing ecosystem, balancing the common good with individual
financial empowerment.










The development of Octant is
dynamic and continuously seeks
community input. At this stage, users
can fund public goods projects
through
individual
allocations,
suggest
eligibility criteria
for
recipients, submit potential recipients,
and propose experimental designs
and governance mechanisms. The
Golem Foundation seeded Octant by
staking 100K ETH from its treasury.
Every 90 days, a portion of staking
rewards gets allocated to the Octant
reward pool, with the community
determining the distribution of funds.

Since launching in 2023, Octant has completed
three allocation windows, donating over 840
ETH to 30 high-impact public goods causes, with
users claiming 418 ETH in rewards. A significant
value is pledged toward developing public goods
through Octant, with around 15% of the GLM
token supply staked for the cause. The fourth
Epoch's Allocation Window is scheduled to begin
in mid-July 2024.

ETH Evacuations
The mission of EthEvacuations, run by Kat (katalunia.eth), is to fund evacuations from Gaza
using ETH, tipping tokens like $DEGEN, $ENJOY, and funds raised through NFT mints. Each
evacuation requires around 1.5 ETH (around $5,300 at the time of publishing) for an adult
and approximately 0.6 ETH for a child. Donations in ETH allow families to cover
coordination fees to evacuate via the Rafah crossing. Over the past 5.5 weeks (at the time of
writing this), the initiative has raised over $250,000 and has enabled 45 adults and children
to register for evacuation.

28

GITCOIN
Gitcoin is an Ethereum-powered platform that is changing how open-source
projects are created and funded. Such projects are community-driven initiatives
where developers collaborate to build software, tools, and technologies that
benefit everyone. Gitcoin's mission is to “grow open source” by enabling developers
to contribute, earn rewards, and fund beneficial projects.

Gitcoin distributes funding primarily through Quadratic Funding, a mechanism
ensuring fair and inclusive resource allocation via algorithms and matching funds,
maximizing the impact of small contributions from many members. To reduce sybil
attacks, Gitcoin introduced the Gitcoin Passport in June 2022. This digital ID verifies
genuine contributors by requiring "stamps" from various authenticators like Bright
ID, Proof of Humanity, Twitter, and Google, ensuring only real individuals receive
rewards. The Gitcoin Grants Program allows developers to submit ideas and receive
community funding.

Since 2017, Gitcoin has helped over 3,700 projects raise more than 60 million USD,
excluding 4.2 million USD in unique donations. Providing a platform for opensource contributions and community-driven funding, Gitcoin is already empowering
developers to create/utilize innovative solutions that benefit everyone. As the
platform grows, it continues to shape the future of open-source development and
community funding, making it a key player in the blockchain industry.
29

Artizen is a community-funded platform for art, science, and public goods. It seeks to rebuild
trust in philanthropy through a transparent and community-driven funding approach. Unlike
traditional philanthropic organizations marred by bias and bureaucracy, Artizen empowers
its members to support causes and projects aligned with their values, encouraging a more
decentralized
Artizen

has

approach

fueled

to

funding

the

community's

innovation, enabling

creators

choice. Through

and

researchers

to

community
pursue

funding,

projects

that

may otherwise lack financial support, empowering communities to address local needs and
improve

quality

of

life,

and

supporting

projects

in

the

arts,

thereby

nurturing

cultural

enrichment. Since its establishment in 2021, Artizen has remained active, recently awarding
131.22 ETH (approx. US$410k) to projects with the highest community support in the third
season of its funding cycle.









 

HumanDAO

HumanDAO is a community-funded social impact DAO dedicated to onboarding people from
low-income or underserved backgrounds into crypto and Web3. The DAO leverages various
onchain

technologies

such

as

NFTs,

P2E

(Play-to-Earn),

and

L2

(Layer

2)

solutions.

HumanDAO aims to improve the lives of marginalized communities.



HumanDAO enables individuals to earn through different opportunities by connecting them
to

decentralized

digital

opportunities, and asset

economies.

The

DAO

offers

its

members

learning,

career

lending. HumanDAO generates revenue by renting or selling assets
and

collaborating

with

on-chain

gaming

projects.



Through

its

partnership

with

Food

For

Life Global, HumanDAO has supplied over
3,000

meals

and

wages

to

over

1,000

of

its 65,000+ community members.

30

Protocol Guild
Protocol

Guild

is

a

collective

of

approximately

160

Ethereum core protocol contributors focused on enabling
distributed

funding

for

distributed

systems.

This

collective enhances incentives for stewarding Ethereum's
core protocol with tools like a split contract (0xSplits),
which

distributes

donated

application

tokens

to

a

curated list of contributors through a vesting contract.


Protocol Guild's mission is to fund core Ethereum development sustainably by maintaining
its members' onchain registry. This allows ecosystem sponsors to directly fund contributors
and their work for the public good.

Protocol Guild maintains a curated membership registry, assigning weights to each member
based on their contribution duration. This includes contributors from around 25 projects
across the Ethereum ecosystem. Donations vest directly to a time-weighted split, providing
long-term

incentives

through

custom

a

for

Dune

core

protocol

dashboard.

stewardship. They

Protocol

Guild

can

offers

be

the

tracked

Ethereum

on-chain

and

community

a

frictionless way to support core protocol contributors by providing a registry and a donation
address, boosting long-term development incentives.

Clr Fund
Clr.fund

is

a

protocol

efficiently allocate
that

benefit

preferences
emphasizes

the
of

using

funds

in

Ethereum
the

support

of

Network,

Ethereum

credible

permissionlessness,

quadratic

to

public goods

guided

community.

neutrality,

trustlessness,

funding

by

the

Clr.fund

decentralization,

and

pseudonymity.

MACI protects against bribery and helps tally results,
while BrightID prevents sybil attacks. Since 2020, the
clr.fund

has

funded

Ethereum ecosystem.

31

nine

rounds

benefiting

the

Endaoment is a nonprofit community foundation and public charity built on the Ethereum
blockchain, enabling anyone to donate digital assets to any qualified 501(c)(3) U.S. nonprofit
organization. This grantmaking foundation supports various forms of giving entirely onchain. Donors can create a Donor-Advised Fund (DAF) using a social account or an Ethereum
wallet via their app or donate directly to any organization. Tools provided include DAFs,
Direct Donations, Community Funds, Crypto Portfolio Allocations, the Universal Impact Pool,
Traditional Asset Portfolios, and Authorized Fund Advisors.
Contributions can be made via card, stock, or cryptocurrency, and donors can open a DAF for
free with no minimums. Every donation comes with a verifiable receipt of its impact. The
platform has facilitated a total impact of $81.36 million, with 2,442 donations, 532 open
funds, and $34.25 million in grantable funds. Endaoment is the smartest way to give.

Breadchain
Breadchain is a collective of decentralized
cooperative projects using solidarity primitives to
forge relationships and advance community interests
over profit maximization. Its goal is to distribute
capital equitably, providing resources for everyone to
thrive in a post-capitalist web3. The Breadchain
Crowdstaking Application leverages the DAI savings
rate on the Gnosis Chain to fund projects like the
Crypto Commons Association, Labour DAO, and
Symbiota. Interest earned is managed by a Gnosis
multi-sig governed by Breadchain Cooperative
members. Projects aligning with Breadchain's
mission can apply to join the cooperative.
32

Giveth

Giveth is a community-driven donation platform leveraging
blockchain technology to connect real-world projects with
regenerative funding opportunities. The platform offers a
zero-fee service, allowing donors to contribute to verified
public goods projects and earn rewards via the blockchain.
Giveth supports various projects, including environmental
initiatives, social causes, and technological advancements.
Giveth's mission is to build a culture of giving that rewards. It empowers those who give to
projects, society, and the world. The platform makes giving effortless and rewarding, allowing
people worldwide to create positive change. The Giveth platform enables you to invest in
projects you believe in, with donations directly supporting these initiatives while earning you
rewards.


Since its inception in 2016, Giveth has offered significant benefits through its crypto-native
platform. These include zero fees for listing projects, donating and receiving funds, and
eliminating intermediaries, ensuring that 100% of all funds go directly from donor to project.
Donors earn crypto rewards every time they contribute to a verified project on Giveth,
enhancing the appeal and impact of their generosity.

$REGEN
$REGEN is a new culture (meme)coin for Optimists
that aims to combine degen vibes with regen(erative)
energy. Drawing inspiration from how people
organize and support memes, the REGEN token is
using the same energy and community organization
to create a positive sum impact in the world.
Participants are rewarded for their regenerative-focused activities with points, airdrops, and
tips, creating a virtuous cycle that amplifies their impact. This approach not only makes
participation fun and rewarding but also drives more on-chain regenerative activity,
increasing overall positive outcomes both IRL and online. An example of this was $REGEN
allocating points to anyone who donated on Giveth, which helped create a 16x increase in
donations on their platform.
33

Regenerative
Finance

‘Our mission is to build a financial system that
creates the conditions for prosperity – for everyone’
- Celo

36

Regenerative Finance
On-chain tooling is changing how networks use crypto to build new and experimental
economic systems that support the well-being of many. These tools facilitate direct and
democratic (community) participation in funding processes ranging from universal basic
income to environmental conservation and open-source software development. By doing
so, they empower communities worldwide, enabling broad and targeted impacts that
address global inequalities and foster sustainable development. This is not just a technical
revolution but a social one, where technology serves as a tool for real-world change.

 

Traditionally, the responsibility for allocating funding and resources to public goods, social
and environmental needs, crisis aid, and open-source technology has fallen on
governments, charities, and non-profit organizations. This dependency often leaves many
vital causes—considered public goods because they are non-excludable and non-rivalrous
—at the mercy of political cycles, local economies, and fluctuating levels of individual or
corporate donations. Despite the good intentions, many crucial and impactful initiatives
remain underfunded or entirely unsupported. The advent of crypto introduces a significant
shift, offering tools such as governance tokens, staking mechanisms, liquidity pools, social
tokens, and memecoins. These DeFi instruments empower blockchains, protocols, DAOs,
networks, and communities to support important global causes effectively.

37

0
5 6
0 5
6 e 1
1 4 0 1
8 7 0 6 0
e 5 8 1 5 w
v 3 1 0 0 q
i d 5 7 5 e 5
t y 2 8 1 w 1 7
a m 8 0 9 q 0 8 9
r o 7 2 2 w 4 0 1 6
e n 5 0 9 e 8 2 f 5
n o 3 6 1 q 0 t 1 0 0
e c e 4 0 w 2 c 0 5 0 5
g e 1 8 1 e 8 a 6 0 y 6 3
e 0 0 1 9 e 1 p 1 5 1 6 6 4
r 6 1 8 0 v 5 m 0 2 2 7 0 6
0 3 6 1 9 i M i f 9 1 5 2 5 0
5 0 5 0 1 t U 8 1 1 2 6 5 6 3 2
0 6 1 0 9 i S 0 0 0 0 c 6 c g 3 5
5 b 1 4 b s 2 4 6 0 0 6 4 6 n a 0 6
0 5 5 T 5 o 8 0 b 4 0 d 7 9 i 1 4 1
0 6 8 2 G 6 p 0 0 6 5 0 5 67 2 1 6 b eb a a 0 0 56
5 b 45 5 0 0 81 6 6 5 7 6 1 l 3 3 7 5 0
5 0 f d 6 6 c d 5 1 6 f 6 76 6 l 1 c a0 8 1 8 5 06
0 1 5b 2 5 f 10 2 6 5 6 e a d 2 9 1 8 f
0 6 1 5 2 1 9 4 7 c 6 e 4 w9 4 8 0 9 22 5 0 1 0 6q
5 8 10 0 0 6 a2 c v 3 8 9 6 1 8 4 0 2 5
w 6 6 1 9 4 3 5 6 i 6 0 d b8 4 0 0 6 0b 6 5 6
2 1 91 6 3 6 ct c 6 2 1 1 0 1 5 6 5
0 6 4 1 7 4 e f 6 3 9 8 0 96 0 8 6 7 44 3
1 e 73 6 l 6 0a 4 d 9 2 c 5 1 2
f 5 2 0 l 3 0 2 8 f 1 5 2 5f d 6 1
4 c co 7 0 8 90 9 1 0 1 7 3
6 1 6 4 1 c 3 5 b 8 1 0 5 63 2
6 1 81 7 0 6 20 6 1 6 1
a 0 66 1 5 0 52 6 c 6
0 0 09 d 6 1 01 6 6
1 8 1f b 0 7 65 6
1 0 65 4 8 4 20
1 5 08 0 6 c
0 2 02 0 6
0 6 c2 c
1 6 16
5 6
3

Projects are building innovative tools and creating new methods to fund initiatives that
deliver positive-sum benefits, fundamentally transforming our approach from a purely
financial system to new regenerative economies. These platforms leverage the potential of
DeFi for impact and profit vs just profit. Examples include staking Ethereum, LP yield,
short-term lending and investing, and using this money to fund public goods. Additionally,
creating memetokens and governance tokens provides a fresh funding source for projects
aimed at ecological restoration and community support, transforming popular digital
trends into tools for positive change. 

 

These platforms emphasize transparency and encourage democratic participation, allowing
community members to directly decide how funds are distributed, whether for artists who
drive cultural innovation, developers building open-source software, crisis aid, UBI, or
sustainable efforts focused on environmental conservation and regeneration. These
systems and tools help expand the funding landscape and integrate crucial areas like the
environment, public welfare, and the arts into a unified, financially regenerative ecosystem,
demonstrating that financial systems can effectively support and enhance collective wellbeing.
38

Toucan Protocol

Toucan is building market infrastructure to help scale the carbon removal space efficiently,
rigorously, and quickly. They work closely with suppliers, buyers, and other stakeholders to
build products that serve the market and its participants. Toucan enables the tokenization of
carbon

credits

using

blockchain

technology and

creates

a

liquid

and

openly accessible

market for carbon finance. This benefits carbon credit suppliers, buyers, and other climate
tech infrastructure builders. 









Toucan’s mission is to unlock large-scale climate action and transition
the world to an economy that operates sustainably within the planet's
limits. Launched in 2021, Toucan's infrastructure has supported $4
billion in carbon credit trading volume, retired credits representing
about

298k

tonnes

of

carbon,

and

made

the

first-ever

registry-

approved, high-integrity biochar carbon credits available on-chain.
.







Koko DAO
Koko DAO is building a model to verify and compensate for small-scale conservation. Its
vision

is

to

develop

new

blockchain-based

methods

to

reward

rural

communities

for

conserving their land, regardless of size, to enable them to tackle small-scale deforestation
in rural Columbia





Rural communities and small landowners lack the resources and
land size to benefit from carbon offsets for forest preservation,
making

deforestation

blockchain

to

validate

economically
the

impact

attractive.
of

Koko

small-scale

DAO

uses

conservation

projects, creating new compensation methods for land preservation.

Founded in 2022, Koko DAO is currently protecting its first forest, which spans 37 acres in
Huila, Colombia. The first stage of KOKO DAO's methodology to scale forest preservation in
Colombia has been completed. Koko DAO has also completed a drone imagery collection and
initial assessment for the establishment of a second forest reserve spanning 300 hectares in
partnership with Gain Forest.

39

Kokonut Network
Based in the Dominican Republic, the Kokonut Network is creating a blockchain cooperative
to encourage regenerative agriculture through promoting, organizing, funding, and managing
coconut farms. With a projected yield of 18 million coconuts from the Kokonut V1 plantation,
the Kokonut network will generate 10,000+ jobs centered on crucial agricultural duties and
revenue of about $8.1 million per year for the DAO members from the sales of coconut fruits.






The Kokonut network has been active since 2022,
having purchased 620 acres of land for the proposed
Kokonut V1 plantation. They also partnered with the
Department of Agriculture Dominican Republic to
access financing for agricultural production,
ensuring stability and resilience in emergencies.

Silvi
The Silvi movement, born in 2021, aspires to create a ripple effect of hope by planting trees
and generating sustainable livelihoods for millions. This innovative approach empowers
communities worldwide to lead reforestation efforts, with the ambitious goal of 1 trillion
trees planted by 100 million people. Silvi tackles climate change and biodiversity loss headon by restoring ecosystems through large-scale tree planting. These initiatives go beyond
environmental benefits, empowering local communities by offering sustainable employment
opportunities and economic development.


Since its inception, Silvi has collaborated with over ten schools
and community partners, planting over 5,000 trees. This initial
success saw Silvi's supporters plant roughly 70,000 trees across
15 trial locations near Kenya's Kakamega Forest. Additionally,
when introducing over 500 farmers to Celo, Silvi helped them
earn more using this reforestation incentive model.
40

OpenCivics
OpenCivics is a civic innovation consortium
and decentralized collaborative network
dedicated to those who choose to care for
and take responsibility for communities,
commons, and the world together.
OpenCivics convenes and facilitates a civic
innovation network of leaders, innovators,
change agents, and public servants
actualized in service to the public good.
OpenCivics has two layers of involvement:
the OpenCivics Network, an open space for
civic stewards to learn about and apply civic
innovation, and the OpenCivics Consortium,
a DAO for coordinating collaboration on
systemic solutions.







OpenCivics has a Grant Round program
that seeks to provide funding and
coordination support to projects building
and deploying civic utilities or
civilizational public goods. The latest was
OpenCivics Consortium Round 02, which
offers a $66k matching pool to fund
critical collaborative protocols, prototypes,
and infrastructures that enable civic
engagement and interoperable civic
utilities for direct governance and
stewardship of our communities and
commons. The latter was in November
2023, the Genesis Round, which offered
$33,000 USD to 15 civic innovation
projects, with allocations made by the
public through quadratic voting utilizing
the Gitcoin platform.

KlimaDAO
KlimaDAO, launched in 2021, acts as a market maker for environmental commodities,
utilizing DeFi primitives like DEXes to create liquid markets for these otherwise illiquid
assets. Its decentralized nature allows the DAO community to determine its evolution.
Governed by the KLIMA token, KlimaDAO's infrastructure serves as a neutral base layer for
future environmental commodities markets (beyond just carbon).
KlimaDAO builds public goods, primarily in the form of open-source software, and offers
common-pool resources, like protocol-owned liquidity and treasury financing, to foster
equitable, scalable, and blockchain-enabled environmental commodity markets. To date, the
carbon credit assets in the KlimaDAO ecosystem have had over $4 billion in trading activity,
with an on-chain supply of over 20 million tonnes of carbon credits—representing about 5%
of the outstanding carbon credits in circulation globally.
41

ReFi DAO







 






ReFi DAO, founded in 2021, aims to impact the world through
regenerative culture, technology, and ventures, focusing on
empowering communities to invest in public goods. It
combines education, opportunity development, and fundraising
and has built a substantial global presence with over 60,000
ReFi Podcast listeners, hosting over 100 events in 58 cities.
The organization has actively facilitated community-driven environmental and social
regeneration by establishing over 40 local nodes globally and deploying more than $55,000
in grant capital through platforms like Gitcoin. In 2023, ReFi DAO allocated $30,000 to these
nodes, enhancing their ability to support grassroots regenerative projects. The 2024 agenda
includes expanding this network with the launch of the Local Node Beta Cohort, which will
provide additional tools and collaborative opportunities to strengthen local impacts further.

Coral Tribe
Coral Tribe is a community of impact investors using Web3
climate finance to support sustainable businesses through the
ReFi Hub platform. Their platform ensures that loans directly
benefit businesses combating climate change, promoting
clean energy, and fostering sustainable development.
Members vote on fund allocations, targeting goals like
Affordable & Clean Energy, Sustainable Consumption, Climate
Action, and Life Below Water. The community has 1500
members, funded five projects, and raised $500k.
Since Coral Tribe focuses on reefs and mangroves due to their environmental impact, they
found that reefs host 25% of marine life despite occupying only 1% of the ocean, and
mangroves sequester five times more carbon than typical forests. Key projects include Nusa
Penida, Indonesia, planting 394 corals with Coral Triangle Centre; Hatamin Island, Indonesia,
planting 394 corals with Coral Guardian; Kigamboni, Tanzania, planting 450 mangrove
saplings with Treegens; Diani, Kenya, planting 550 mangrove saplings with Treegens; Punta
de La Mona, Spain, removing 500 kg of ocean plastic and transplanting 304 corals with Coral
Guardian; Eel Garden, Turks & Caicos, planting 550 corals with Turks & Caicos Reef Fund.
42

FlowCarbon
Flowcarbon is advancing the voluntary
carbon market, currently estimated at
$2 billion, with a goal to scale
operations 15 times by 2030 to meet
the
Paris
Agreement
targets.
Specializing in project finance,
development, and credit portfolio
services, Flowcarbon uses blockchain to
improve liquidity and transparency in
carbon markets, directing more capital
into conservation, reforestation, and
ecosystem restoration projects.















Flowcarbon also supports initiatives like
EV charging stations, biochar production,
and cleaner cooking solutions in the
developing world. Their carbon-backed
tokens, each representing a tonne of
carbon, are set to transform carbon credit
trading and utilization. Recognized as one
of America’s Top GreenTech Companies in
2024 by TIME and Statista, Flowcarbon is
driving significant environmental change
through financial innovation.

Moss
Moss.earth, a Brazilian climate tech company, enhances the speed and accuracy of
conservation and reforestation projects in the Amazon. The Moss Platform allows
individuals and organizations to purchase MCO2 tokens, a carbon credit token backed by
CO2 removed by certified reforestation projects. Moss aims to promote biodiversity
conservation and ecosystem restoration by democratizing access to carbon offsetting. The
Moss Forest system uses databases, satellite imagery, and scientific studies to accelerate
and certify carbon credit projects. This tool automates the identification of optimal forest
conservation areas and measures their impact, benefiting smaller properties lacking feasible
solutions.
Since 2020, Moss has neutralized over 1 million tons of CO2, invested
over $50 million in socio-environmental projects, and promoted climate
change awareness through the Moss Academy. Recognized for its work,
Moss has received awards such as "Climate Tech of the Year" at SXSW
2023 and "Best Carbon Offset Platform" at the Green Awards 2022.
43

Regen Network












Regen

Network

is

the

ecological

asset

origination system of the Cosmos ecosystem,
focusing on reversing climate change and
supporting

regenerative

initiatives.

It

provides a platform to originate and invest in
high-integrity carbon and biodiversity credits
from ecological regeneration projects. Regen

In 2023, the Regen Market app created

Network is not just an organization but a

over 2 million Eco Credits, with more than

community,

public

588 thousand Carbon Credits retired and

blockchain-based protocol, and network. Its

backed by climate science. Regen Network

components

has

commons,

include

movement,

Regen

Network

impacted

more

than

15

million

Development, Inc. (RND), Regen Foundation,

hectares

Regen Ledger, and Cerulean Ventures.

ecological project developers worldwide.

of

land

in

collaboration

with

Solarpunk DAO
Born from a desire to combat the climate and ecological crisis caused by modern capitalism,
Solarpunk DAO leverages Web3 tools to build a decentralized infrastructure for a zeroemissions world. This DAO goes beyond awareness, offering and financing comprehensive
solutions to achieve a Solarpunk utopia. Since 2020, they've consistently funded crucial
endeavors, providing development funds for clean energy, regenerative agriculture, clean
transportation, ecosystem conservation, and climate tech projects.

Solarpunk DAO has funded numerous projects, bolstering
the growth of solarpunk infrastructure. It also recognizes
and rewards individuals who champion the development of
ReFi

and

the

Solarpunk

mission

itself.

Recently,

it

concluded a QF round, distributing 1000 EARTH tokens to
42 projects. By ensuring that promising projects receive the
necessary funds, Solarpunk DAO addresses the financial
barriers that often hinder progress on climate action.

44

Climate and
Environmental
REGENeration

The projects who are winning in crypto are the ones
who understand interoperability very quickly. This
isn’t

Apple

vs.

Microsoft.

It’s

a

world

where

everyone is building different pieces of the puzzle
and collaborating, increasing each others’ chances of
success. The community is working on all angles –
futures, land, assessments, new carbon credits, new
categories

for

offsetting

like

biodiversity.

If

people see pieces missing, they pull other people in
to build this missing pieces. Finding a community of
people that keep on bringing in more pieces is
beautiful.  


- Tomer Bariach




46

Climate and Environmental REGENeration

One of the prevailing criticisms of crypto, NFTs and blockchain as a whole is its
environmental impact, particularly within proof-of-work systems, which Ethereum no
longer uses. While these concerns are valid, they often overshadow how this technology
supports holistic approaches to ecosystem restoration, climate change combat, and
sustainability enhancement. These networks deserve recognition for their commitment to
regenerative practices that actively restore and revitalize our natural systems. Their focus
extends beyond slowing climate change; they are dedicated to sustainably regenerating
our ecosystems.

 

Projects, communities, and protocols empower their members to directly influence
decisions on various projects, from coral reef restoration to sustainable agriculture
through decentralized governance. This approach enhances the transparency of
environmental actions like carbon offsetting and ensures these efforts are verifiable and
trustworthy.

47

Moreover, blockchain facilitates collaboration among diverse groups—including NGOs,
governments, and local communities—to catalyze systemic change in sustainability
practices. These initiatives attract global capital with transparent funding models that
actively engage the community. Some platforms are also enhancing the accessibility and
reliability of climate data, supporting better environmental risk assessments and
planning. Overall, blockchain and crypto are proving to be powerful tools in the fight
against climate change, enhancing ecological sustainability through community-driven
and transparent methods.


Additionally, these networks foster collaboration, drive innovation, and facilitate
systemic change in the ongoing battle against climate change. By uniting diverse
stakeholders—from individuals and local communities to businesses and governments
—they encourage widespread participation in regenerative practices and contribute to a
collective vision of a sustainable future.

48

Solar Foundation













Established in October 2022 by Jon Ruth and Coleen Chase, the Solar Foundation funds and
accelerates
Focused

off-grid

on

solar

achieving
NGOs

initiatives

Sustainable

individuals

and

to

foundation

implements

leverage
pilot

in

underserved

Development
blockchain

programs

to

and

communities

Goal

7

scale

in

(SDG7),

solar

sustainable

emerging

they

projects

funding

in

markets.

collaborate
rural

models

to

with

areas. The
empower

communities with clean energy and ownership stakes in the solutions deployed.

Since

its

inception,

the

foundation

has

funded

projects

in

Uganda, Puerto Rico, and Nigeria, providing solar lights, mobile
solar generators, and solar power for schools and computer labs.
They focus on supporting community-led NGOs such as schools,
healthcare

centers,

and

agroforestry

organizations,

ensuring

clean, reliable energy for rural, low-income communities.

The

Solar

Foundation

advances

equitable

access

to

affordable

solar

energy

and

storage,

including microgrids, by developing transparent, open-source funding models and focusing
on

the

needs

of

women

and

youth.

They

raise

funds

through

donations,

including

cryptocurrency and quadratic funding.

Mangrove DAO

MangroveDAO is dedicated to restoring and protecting degraded mangroves in Myanmar and
globally through
combat

climate

a

token-based

change, and

governance

support

model. Its

coastal

mission

communities

is

to

promote

biodiversity,

by transparently and

efficiently

financing, governing, and monitoring mangrove restoration projects. MangroveDAO leverages
blockchain

technology

to

ensure

transparent

fund

utilization,

equitable

governance,

and

independent project monitoring.

Launched

in

2021,

MangroveDAO

mangrove

restoration

subsidies,

helping

community

restore

more

has
by

than

significantly

granting
100

over

hectares

impacted
$100,000
of

the
in

degraded

mangroves, and raising awareness about the importance of mangroves.

49

MaEarth

Ma Earth is a community-led movement to align economic
incentives with planetary health and regeneration. Through an
interview series on YouTube, Spotify, and Apple, MaEarth
explores the intersections of regenerative finance, technology,
and the Earth. Ma Earth also successfully completed its first
grant round through Gitcoin, putting up a $100,000 matching
pool for 23 regenerative land projects. It is exploring Hypercerts,
leading MRV providers, and other regenerative finance tools to
streamline impact measurement for grantees and donors.

MesoReefDAO
MesoReefDAO also plans to establish a coral reef restoration fund, managed by the DAO
community and open to contributions from anyone passionate about preserving the
Mesoamerican Reef Ecosystem. Partnering with local communities, NGOs, and industry
stakeholders, it aims to develop a comprehensive restoration plan that includes regenerative
practices to restore coral habitats, improve water quality, reduce pollution, and support reef
recovery.
One of MesoReefDAO's key initiatives is the development
of a regenerative DeSci offset program. This program
incentivizes individuals and organizations to reduce their
carbon footprint while contributing to MAR conservation
efforts. The carbon offset credits generated through this
program will be tradable on the blockchain, creating a
transparent and traceable market that provides tangible
benefits to the environment.
Another crucial aspect of MesoReefDAO's mission is the establishment of a coral reef
restoration fund. The DAO's community will manage the fund, which will be open to
contributions from anyone passionate about supporting the conservation and restoration of
the Mesoamerican Reef Ecosystem.
50

Web3Beach
By incentivizing environmental impact and web3 education,
Web3Beach empowers communities to tackle environmental
issues and foster regenerative practices. Their aim is to empower
these communities through participation in social and
environmental impact activities, such as beach cleanups,
educational tutoring for youth, art classes, and other recreational
initiatives. Web3Beach has been organizing weekly beach clean-ups, dives against debris,
and coral restoration projects for over six years in Honduras. They believe these
communities have the most to gain from crypto and are also willing to take action to
regenerate their communities.
Web3beach has expanded its operations to Venezuela, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Japan, and
Colombia and will soon begin operations in Kenya.

Nori
Founded in 2017, Nori is dedicated to scaling carbon removal to
reverse climate change. They have built an integrated carbon
removal issuing program, registry, and marketplace to simplify the
complex market and enhance buyers' and sellers' transparency,
trust, efficiency, and impact. Nori's methodologies are developed
collaboratively with experts and undergo public review.
Additionally, they use third-party tools to validate credit impact
claims and an open registry that prevents double counting.
In 2024, Nori is on track to support over 400k acres of regenerative farmland, pay over $6.5M
to suppliers, and reach over 700k tonnes of carbon removed from the atmosphere. They also
make it easy for businesses to drive positive climate impact by giving them access to verified
carbon removal credits that support regenerative farmers in the US, help scale the
technology underpinning promising durable solutions, and can be integrated directly into
products. This is accomplished through Nori Net Zero Tonne™, a hybrid credit combining
regenerative and permanent carbon removal and their Carbon Removal API, enabling
businesses to integrate climate impact into websites and apps.
51

dClimate
dClimate is the first DAO for climate data,
forecasts, and models. Its mission is to create a
reliable, blockchain-based climate record. The
main feature of dClimate's ecosystem is a data

Founded in 2021, dClimate has achieved

marketplace that connects publishers and data

significant

consumers in a user-friendly platform. This

launched Aegis, a physical climate risk

marketplace

more

assessment

platform

accessible and reliable. The ecosystem also

assessments

for

includes layers for analytics and forecasts,

hospitality, retail, and real estate entities.

turning raw data into insights essential for

During the 28th Conference of Parties

climate

(COP28) in Dubai in December, dClimate

risk

Additionally,
products,

makes

climate

planning
it

supports

such

as

and

data

assessment.

applications

parametric

and

insurance,

already being built by companies like Arbol.

milestones.

In

July,

they

that

conducts

major

tourism,

signed a memorandum of understanding
(MoU)

with

focuses

on

vulnerable

the

DRC. This

identifying
areas

of

and

the

agreement
protecting

Congo

Basin

rainforest and peatlands, using advanced
monitoring for conservation initiatives.

Regró Project
Regró is a regenerative initiative active in six countries, including Italy,
Croatia, Kenya, Germany, Brazil, and the Italian Alps. This project is
focused on climate, ecology, agriculture, biodiversity, and everything
related to land and the ecosystem. Deriving its name from two words,
“regenerative” and “growers,” regroers are users who steward the land
they own, rent, or have access to by sharing knowledge, protecting the
land, and restoring ecosystems from intensive agriculture and pollution.

Regró collaborates with other Web3-based and Regen protocols to address value chain
challenges in agriculture, biodiversity protection, etc., and aims to enhance land stewardship
through regenerative techniques. These techniques could include solar energy utilization, water
management, permaculture gardens, forest orchards, soil protection, crop growing, and other
sustainable practices.

52

basin
Built to create a hyperstructure for climate and nature, .basin is a protocol purpose-built to
safeguard ecosystems and natural carbon sinks. Its goal is to redirect 10% of the $1.3 trillion
real-world asset (RWA) market towards climate, nature, and carbon projects in crypto to scale
climate and nature financing. This project is creating a blockchain-based real estate
investment class to attract global capital.
Rather than relying on conventional, narrow valuations, .basin utilizes the “REvalue”
methodology to delve into the holistic value and cost of RWAs, assess the higher and better
use of real estate, quantify their value, and account for all of them. It also uses REcerts (also
known as $STRMS), which are impact certificates and carbon/biodiversity credits that
represent impact, value flows, and collective stakes created by members for each other and
society and tied to specific locations. In the end, .basin is a community of regens that utilizes
its infrastructure, shared liquidity, and the network effect of integrations to create net
benefits for everyone.

Agroforest DAO

53

AgroforestDAO, based in Brazil, is an agricultural project harnessing the power of blockchain
and NFTs to incentivize agroforestry practices and community ownership of intergenerational
agroecosystems. The organization is working on a number of projects focused on equity in
forest resources supply chains, tokenizing successional consortiums to pay for their
stewardship, and sharing seasonal updates about the process, rewarding Proofs-ofSuccession with tools and gear, supporting income-generating opportunities for community
contributors, and organizing IRL events and experiences. The DAO is also issuing onchain
certificates and building reputation systems to recognize intelectual, natural, genetic and
other forms of capital exchanged in a Rooted Society. Connecting urban co-stewards with
land stewards advances long-term wealth for the participants and stimulates additional food
forest investments.
The various projects are aligned with the goals of supporting rural communities by
onboarding them to the Web3 space, learning about Public Goods, wallet management, and
collective tools and protocols such as Safe Multisig or Split.xyz. Additionally, the mechanisms
in place nurture long-term commons like education, training, elder care and knowledge
building. In its two years of operation, Agroforest DAO has achieved grant rounds in Gitcoin
and Giveth, demonstrated remarkable proof of agroforestry, and collaborated with local
schools, universities and families, often recognizing contributors with non-transferable
hypercerts.

Treegens
Treegens aims to establish a new way to help the environment by planting and caring for
trees. Its mission is to create a reliable platform for funding tree-planting initiatives. The
nonprofit tree-planting project gamifies the system, allowing users to earn $MGRO and DSST
(dynamic semi-soulbound) tokens by planting mangrove trees and leveling up through
increased participation.

 








Treegens is dedicated to building a global community of people
committed to environmental conservation. Its online educational
courses and sensitization programs empower people to take
action and positively impact their communities. Treengens has
made a reputable impact, planting over one million mangrove
trees globally in less than nine months and breaking the world
record for the most trees planted in 24 hours.

Earthist DAO
The Earthist DAO combines traditional farming practices with modern technology to support
industrial hemp farmers. Establishing micro-processing centers and promoting heirloom seed
preservation aims to create a future where hemp is both healthy and accessible to everyone.
The organization's mission is to foster a collaborative community that encourages education
and knowledge-sharing in regenerative industrial hemp farming, heirloom seed preservation,
and micro-processing to boost local economies and promote sustainable practices in local
agriculture.
Established in 2019, the DAO has achieved numerous
milestones. It prioritizes seed sovereignty, ensuring
that farmers have autonomous control over their seeds,
and has raised awareness about hemp's potential and
environmental

benefits

through

"Hempducation"

initiatives, particularly in communities within the
Republic of Turkiye. In 2022, it created its first seed
bank, secured a funding grant from Gitcoin, and gained
support from organizations like BanklessDAO.
54

Traditional Dream Factory 




 




Traditional Dream Factory (TDF) is turning

Since its inception in September 2021, TDF has

real

opportunity for

planted over 2,000 trees, established a productive

ecological restoration and community

food forest and market garden that supports over

stewardship within the OASA network.

30 people, and has plans to expand its green

Their project aims to conserve 100,000

footprint significantly. Future initiatives include

hectares globally, utilizing a co-living

planting 10,000 fruit trees, developing water

model

retention

estate

into

where

an

residents,

guests,

and

engage

directly

in

production for improved soil fertility and carbon

TDF

capture. Recognized as one of the world’s top

combines modern living with sustainable

regenerative villages, TDF provides a sustainable

practices, featuring facilities like farms,

living model and involves its community in

maker

areas

governance through the TDF token, ensuring that

designed to optimize resource use and

those invested in the project have a voice in its

foster a vibrant, creative community.

development and stewardship.

volunteers

can

environmental

regeneration.

spaces, and

co-working

landscapes,

and

starting

biochar

LetsGrow DAO

Let's Grow DAO drives the Regen and ReFi movements by
fostering regenerative practices and unifying diverse efforts
within the ecosystem. They partner with organizations to
innovate and develop new technologies that benefit the web3
ecosystem. Emphasizing open governance and community
participation, Let's Grow DAO actively engages in networking
through

events.

They

support

projects

with

positive

environmental impacts and advocate for sustainability and
ethical standards in web3. This year, they plan to conduct a
Quadratic Funding round to further their mission of creating
positive impacts through crypto and blockchain technologies.

55

Culture

These

culture-focused

communities

and

projects

leverage blockchain principles to drive meaningful
social change and foster creativity, community, and
collaboration. By enabling decentralized governance,
transparent funding, and innovative technology use,
they redefine how we engage with and support cultural
and social initiatives.


-Lana Dingwall


58

Culture

As the onchain ecosystem evolves, it’s reshaping finance and redefining our cultural
experiences. Blockchain fundamentally transforms how niche communities, united by
specific interests or backgrounds, engage and thrive. Culture is essential for shaping
individual and collective identity, fostering social cohesion, preserving heritage,
stimulating creativity, providing moral guidance, driving economic prosperity, supporting
emotional well-being, and enriching education. It enhances our lives, fortifying the fabric
of society. Communities that develop these culture-focused networks are invaluable for
improving community life, promoting diversity, and advancing both social and economic
progress.



Projects building onchain enable the creation and widespread distribution of digital art,
fostering collaborative environments where artists and collectors connect and grow. Some
initiatives build global networks for digital nomads, offering sustainable living and
working spaces that promote decentralized governance and connection with nature.



Others empower individuals to challenge centralization, financing projects that drive
political reform, economic redistribution, social justice, or technological decentralization.
These platforms provide resources for like-minded individuals to support causes that
challenge existing power structures.
59

Community-driven efforts also channel crypto donations to support crisis victims, using

innovative

methods

Additionally,

some

like

NFT

networks

auctions

create

for

rapid

and

community-owned

impactful

aid

living

working

and

distribution.

spaces,

managed through NFT ownership and voting rights, fostering environmentally conscious

travel and sustainable living.



Moreover,

some

of

these

communities

focus

on

advancing

fields

like

physics

and

cosmology through pooled resources and tokenized membership governance, while

others empower underrepresented voices in culture-making, fostering genuine creative

expression and community both online and offline.



Innovative tokenomics models support public goods and charitable initiatives, funding

projects from open-source software development to educational programs. Through

community-driven

exploration

and

moderation,

dialogue,

these

promoting

spaces

foster

mutual

safe

respect

environments

and

for

cultural

understanding

among

members.


60

DRiP


















DRiP enables the inexpensive creation and widespread
distribution of digital art to users for free. It is a platform
for

new

creators

to

explore

their

artistic

talents

and

allows art enthusiasts to get digital collectibles from their
favorite

creators

at

no

cost.

The

DRiP

community

encourages collaboration and communal growth, allowing
artists to give and receive feedback on their pieces while
forming

friendships

DRiP provides

an

with

fellow

inclusive

creators.

environment

Furthermore,

for

art

lovers

enthralled with the beauty of digital art to connect. Since
its inception in 2022, DRiP has recorded the minting of
100M

collectibles

on

its

platform,

4M

sales

in

the

secondary markets, and the onboarding of 500k collectors.

Cabin DAO
Cabin DAO is constructing a global network city where
citizens from around the world gather to live, create, and
commune

with

spontaneous

nature.

in-person

The

DAO

collaborations

aims

to

foster

a

varied

among

online community, innovate sustainable funding models
for

supporting

creators,

and

the

living

explore

costs

the

of

independent

application

of

online

decentralized

governance in coordinating physical living infrastructure.
Since

2020,

the

DAO

has

supported

digital

nomads

through their supper and neighborhood hangouts to form
close

bonds

and

enjoy

nature's

tranquility

community focused on living amidst nature.

61

with

a

Ukraine DAO



















The Ukraine DAO, a community of Ukrainians united by their opposition to the unprovoked
Russian invasion, has been instrumental in channeling crypto donations to Ukrainian
organizations supporting war victims. Since its launch in February 2022, the DAO has
achieved remarkable success. It raised over US$7 million in ETH in its first week by
auctioning a Ukraine flag NFT. These funds were quickly distributed to local Ukrainian
organizations providing aid to those affected by the conflict. The DAO plays a crucial role in
directing donations to these organizations.

KiftDAO

KiftDAO is a nonprofit DAO that is creating a global network of community-owned living
and working spaces. This DAO allows individuals to purchase NFTs that grant them
ownership and voting rights in the properties run by the organization.
This community of nomads believes in traveling and moving in an environmentally
conservative manner. The community proposes and votes on which properties to acquire
and how to manage them. Members can stay at any of the properties and connect with
others with similar interests. Kift DAO promotes a global network of living and working
spaces and flexible and innovative ways to create community-driven spaces for those who
love nature traveling.

62

Take Up Space 












Take Up Space is a community, creator collective, and media company designed for culture-makers
—creatives, writers, storytellers, curators, and tastemakers. Born from the new internet, it envisions
a future where individuals can create and monetize their most authentic work, nurturing their
truth rather than the algorithm. By empowering creatives through media and community
experiences in real life, online, and onchain, Take Up Space provides the support and space
needed to unlock true creativity. It fosters connections, networking, learning, and inspiration
among like-minded individuals, creating opportunities for POC and queer voices to thrive and
express their most authentic selves. This initiative addresses the lack of true community in today's
online world, offering a vibrant space for culture-makers to unite and flourish.


Public Nouns
Public Nouns DAO is recognized for its

The mission of Public Nouns DAO is to support

unique

public goods

approach

to

governance,

with

new

tokenomics, and community-driven art and

funding methods, spreading awareness, and

philanthropy projects. Community members

directly funding public goods, creators, and

holding governance tokens make decisions

public goods mechanisms. A significant portion

about the project’s direction, funding, and

of the funds raised through Noun auctions is

activities,

allocated

ensuring

transparency

and

to

support

public

goods

and

community involvement. The DAO employs

charitable initiatives, including grants for open-

a novel tokenomics model where new

source

Nouns (digital art pieces represented as

programs, and other philanthropic efforts. 


NFTs) are generated and auctioned daily.
The proceeds from these auctions sustain
the project financially and foster continuous
community engagement. Public Nouns DAO
is part of the larger Nouns ecosystem,
known for its distinct pixelated characters,
which have become a cultural phenomenon
in NFT and crypto communities.
63

by experimenting

software

development,

educational

SpiritDAO










SpiritDAO

is

a

non-profit

tokenized

membership community aiming to build
an

action-oriented

practitioners

and

community
partners

of

working

towards a relational universe. Its vision
is

to

create

a

better

world

where

individuals share a deep understanding
of the interconnectedness of all things
and
.


a

global

individuals

network

who

understanding
place within it.

share

the

of

like-minded

a

passion

universe

and

for
our

This community pools resources, knowledge,
and expertise to speed up the advancement
of

physics

pertains

to

and

cosmology

community

and

care.

how
With

it
its

tokenized membership, SpiritDAO offers and
ensures

a

governance,

framework
joint

for

community

decision-making,

and

resource allocation.

Cult DAO

Cult DAO is for radicals and revolutionaries who are frustrated with and actively oppose the
tyranny, oppression, and class divide caused by centralization in today's world. Through the
CULT token, the DAO seeks to empower and finance individuals who construct and contribute
to a fully decentralized future, breaking free from current societal and economic norms. Cult
DAO also provides a decentralized platform for like-minded individuals to pool resources and
fund projects that challenge centralized power structures, such as projects encouraging
political reform, economic redistribution, social justice, and technological decentralization

64

Education

The beauty of crypto is that anyone can invest in it.
When I wanted to invest in Ethereum back in 2017,
nobody could tell me "no." But there is still a
barrier to entry: knowledge.   
I had to buckle up and learn a brand new financial
ecosystem in 2019. My motivation? I was left out of
the classic financial system. It was its own
community of bankers, with its own language and
shared history. I wasn't a part of it.  
With crypto and decentralized finance , I saw a brand
new opportunity to engage with the future of
currency. 


-Maggie Love

66

Education


Education is crucial in the blockchain ecosystem, as there is an initial technological and
philosophical barrier to understanding even the basic concepts, let alone the intricacies
and nuances. It can remain an inaccessible enigma without proper explanations, tools, and
learning opportunities. Education-focused networks help bridge this knowledge gap,
fostering greater diversity and inclusion within the ecosystem.


To build a more positive-sum world, ensuring that as many people as possible can
understand, access, and participate in its creation is essential. By providing educational
resources, these networks empower individuals from all backgrounds globally to utilize
blockchain in multifaceted ways.

67

One focus is educating those excluded from traditional banking systems, such as
migrants, asylum seekers, and unbanked individuals, on using crypto to access financial
resources. Offering face-to-face workshops or partnering with local support groups
promotes financial inclusion and reduces transaction risks.



Other initiatives provide software and product development training for youths and
students, partnering with universities and offering programs that foster a new
generation of blockchain developers and users. These efforts ensure that young people
have the skills needed to thrive in the blockchain industry.

68

SheFi













SheFi is a hands-on educational 8week program known as the MBA of
Web3 Learning, empowering women
and

non-binary folks

globally to

master Web3 technologies, reinvent
their careers, and shape the future of

This launchpad for Web3 careers includes 70+

the

hours of content, live product demos, quests, IRL

digital

economy.

With

a

community of over 3,000 students

summits,

from 90+ countries, SheFi offers a

experimentation and global connectivity in the

comprehensive education through live

onchain space. With 11 seasons of cohorts under

and recorded classes, fostering values

their belt, SheFi is a leading onboarding and

of

education-focused

openness,

kindness,

inclusion,

interdependence, and collaboration.

and

how-to

guides,

community

driving

driving

meaningful adoption of blockchain technology.

Remitt DAO
Established in 2022, Remitt DAO is an education DAO
created for individuals excluded from traditional banking
systems (e.g., migrants, asylum seekers, etc.), educating them
on using crypto as a digital remittance solution. Remitt DAO's
activities include coordinating with local migrant support
groups, NGOs, & social impact DAOs in the region, providing
F2F learning workshops, and promoting Web3 culture among
those in developing nations. Through crypto education,
Remitt DAO has provided financial inclusion for individuals
marginalized by traditional banking systems, reducing the
expenses and risks of engaging with conventional nonbanking financial frameworks for transactions.

69

CARBON Copy
Recognized

for

thoroughly

covering

ReFi-related

topics,

CARBON Copy offers reports, expert analysis, and industry
insights. Its mission is to fill the information gap in the ReFi
space by providing a blend of news, education, and project
evaluation. This
stakeholders

comprehensive

gain

a

deeper

approach

helps

understanding

of

industry
the

field,

increasing project exposure and, ultimately, contributing to
the growth and success of the Impact sector.

Bankless DAO
Founded in May 2021 by the team behind the Bankless podcast and now run by a
decentralized community, Bankless DAO aims to create a transparent, open, and accessible
financial system, bypassing traditional banking structures. Their motto, “Go Bankless,”
promotes

using

decentralized

protocols

and

services

to

manage

wealth

without

intermediaries.
Bankless DAO focuses on creating educational content,
community-driven projects, and strategic partnerships to
make DeFi and blockchain more approachable. They have
launched

numerous

newsletters,

podcasts,

educational
and

programs,

workshops,

including

reaching

over

150,000 subscribers and onboarding thousands of new
DeFi users. The DAO funds and supports various projects
through grants and collaborations, such as creating DeFinative tools and platforms that enhance user experience
and security. Through these initiatives, Bankless DAO has
established

itself

as

a

pivotal

player

in

DeFi

and

Blockchain education, driving significant progress towards
a more inclusive and decentralized financial future.

70

The GreenPill Network 

 




The GreenPill Network is a network society that exports regenerative digital infrastructure
globally, starting from Kevin Owocki's book "GreenPilled" and the GreenPill podcast. With
location-based chapters globally, the network localizes impact through projects like
reforestation efforts, QF funding rounds for non-profits, onboarding workshops, and more.
The GPN community helps fund public good projects within the ecosystem through
community QF rounds and local chapter rounds. Guilds within the network produce
regenerative products and educational materials to onboard new users and transform
current web3 participants into advocates for regeneration. This includes researching, writing,
and producing this ImpactNetwork book! GPN is focused on a multi-faceted approach to help
promote sustainable and regenerative web3 solutions. Learn more about us at
greenpill.network.

RegensUnite 
Regens Unite has developed a platform to connect diverse sectors working on regenerative
climate solutions, emphasizing a deep connection with nature and conscious environmental
impact. It organizes inclusive, participatory events where diversity and equality are
prioritized, ensuring all voices are heard and respected. Providing facilitation, programming
services, and educational materials to support a growing network of professionals. Events
held by Regens Unite are designed to cross-pollinate ideas among individuals from various
regenerative backgrounds, fostering relationships beyond traditional labels. Post-event, they
focus on enhancing the local community and environment, utilizing resources thoughtfully.
Regens Unite’s impact lies in its ability to integrate environmental sustainability with
community building, educational outreach, and the promotion of diversity, thereby enriching
the ecosystem of climate action and fostering a regenerative culture.
71

Urbánika

















Urbánika aims to transform cities into
SolarPunk communities with smart,
regenerative,
peer-governed,
circular
economies that support positive impact. To
bring their vision to life, they converted a
12-meter-long bus into a functional climatepositive house that filters its water,
generates electricity from the sun and wind,
turns plastics and refuse oil into diesel, and
grows food using regenerative technologies.

The bus will travel to over 20 cities across
seven Latin American countries, offering
educational workshops, job fairs, and
creative events. This five-year research
process will help communities transform
into DAOs using open-source web3
technology to rediscover the commons. The
project will produce instructional videos,
manuals, software, and an IRL interface to
facilitate neighborhood governance.

Talent DAO
TalentDAO is on a mission to enhance the effectiveness of decentralized organizational
structures. This group of organizational specialists firmly believes that community ownership
is key to greater inclusivity, operational efficiency, and fair contributor compensation.
However, teams have unique goals and members, so while decentralization can be a major
unlock, it is not a one-size-fits-all concept.
TalentDAO supports the growth of the web3 space by conducting and publishing research in
the Journal of Decentralized Work, an open platform for scientific literature on DAO health
and management. Educational resources and workshops provide insights from communityreviewed publications to improve the general public's understanding of the benefits of
decentralized organizations. To further their vision, TalentDAO develops tools for managing
talent and measuring both contributions and the health of organizations. These tools,
including the DAO Health Survey and Soulbound Tokens, help foster a collaborative
environment that supports sustainable growth and innovation.
72

Bloom Network
The Bloom Network is a member-owned and governed cooperative that connects volunteers
and entrepreneurs to grow projects that benefit local communities. Bloom combines elements
of Facebook and LinkedIn with local media feeds, where members share resources, discuss
complex societal issues like climate change and inequality, and collaborate on a more positive
and deeper level than mainstream platforms typically enable. The decentralized and
transparent governance structure exists to efficiently fund innovative and socially impactful
projects.








Founded in 2020, the social network for regenerative culture currently has 28 nodes in 11
countries and has supported over 100 projects that nurture community prosperity and beauty.
Bloom acts as a community incubator by providing templates and education about business
development, communications, grant writing, community organizing, and more. The Cooperative
is exploring revenue streams and a community currency model where members receive yearend dividends from the action rewards pool and Bloom Coop profits.

Dream DAO

73

Powered by Civics Unplugged, Dream DAO
invests in the future of the web3 and social
impact ecosystems by equipping diverse
Gen Z’ers worldwide with essential training,
funding, mentorship, and opportunities. It
fosters an intergenerational learning
community for 15-20-year-olds eager to
shape the future of web3 and social impact,
offering 1:1 mentorship and meaningful
paid internships at socially impactful web3
organizations. The Dream DAO Explorers
Program, a three-month internship launched
in mid-June 2022, placed participants in
organizations like Celo, Regen Network, and
dOrg, where they produced monthly
knowledge artifacts.

Web3bridge
Web3bridge, just like the name implies,
provides a free bridge to blockchain
technology for Nigerian and African
youths and students. Education is the
main vision of Web3bridge. They
partnered with and supported 14
University blockchain clubs in Nigeria,
such as BlockchainUNN and other Web3
training programs across Africa. They
drive blockchain adoption through
quality builder training and support
such as Web2 & Web3 training cohorts,
product incubation, ecosystem/protocol
research, and open-source contributions
to chains and hackathons.

Infrastructure

Open-source development is the key to communitydriven innovation.

- Vitalik Buterin

76

Infrastructure

-At the heart of this revolution lies a robust and sophisticated infrastructure—comprising a
web of protocols and network architectures—that not only enables the seamless, secure,
and scalable operation of decentralized applications and services but also underpins
transformative, impactful projects.



In this section, together, we’ll dive into the foundational components of blockchain
infrastructure, which make a remarkable impact possible for everyone from developers to
identity experts and community builders. These key protocols and structures form the
bedrock of decentralized networks.



Protocols of all types are not just technical marvels; they are enablers of change. They
ensure the integrity and security of transactions while empowering users by eliminating
the need for unstable traditional financial or social tools.



For these teams, building intuitive and useful infrastructure provides crucial features for
maintaining Web3's decentralized nature, allowing for interoperability, scalability, and
resilience

against

discoordination.

Without

these

robust

infrastructures,

the

groundbreaking projects that define Web3 would not be able to achieve their full potential

77

--Consider the impact of ReFI, NFTs, and DAOs: innovations like these have shaped the
public goods sector as a whole, democratizing access to resources, empowering creators,
and enabling new forms of governance and collaboration. Without meticulous design and
implementation of stable infrastructure, blockchain's most credible use cases would
remain an unrealized dream.



As we navigate the technical landscapes driving many new public goods sectors, we
uncover how to better support decentralized applications and their profound impacts—
fostering economic inclusion, enhancing transparency, and promoting greater equity in
the digital world.

78

Celo













Celo

stands

out

as

a

carbon-negative, mobile-first

blockchain

that

brings decentralized financial (DeFi) tools and services to mobile users.
This

unique

approach

enables

unbanked

and

underbanked

inclusion

globally. Since

its

access

to

financial

populations, fostering
launch

in

2020, the

services
greater

Celo

for

the

financial

mainnet

has

facilitated over 226 million transactions across over 22 million unique
wallets in 150+ countries, supporting over 1000 projects. Furthermore,
Celo launched DeFi for the People, a $100 million initiative to make DeFi accessible to all
phone users worldwide. In 2022 alone, Celo committed to 235 grants worth $72.6 million,
with grant recipients spanning 51 countries. These grants have had a tangible impact in
supporting projects that address social and ecological challenges.

Additionally, Celo launched the Climate Collective to leverage digital technology for scalable
nature and climate action. Their grant program has accelerated over 30 regenerative web3
applications, while the Web3 x Climate Map outlines the projects and infrastructure building
out the refi space. The Climate Collective has since allocated $4M in grant funding to
facilitate over 58 climate projects across 19 countries. They also launched Celosphere and
Celo Creators Fund in 2024 to provide an outlet for artists within the Celo ecosystem.

Proof of Humanity
Proof

of

Humanity (PoH)

is

an

Ethereum

social

identity

verification system that utilizes webs of trust, reverse Turing
tests, and dispute resolution to create a Sybil-proof list of
humans. Individuals who want to join the registry submit
personal information for verification. Existing members can
vouch for new registrants, guaranteeing their existence and
uniqueness. Suspicious submissions can be challenged, with
disputes resolved through a compliant system like Kleros
(an open source online dispute resolution protocol). PoH
serves as an entry point for applications requiring Sybil
resistance, offering features like profile creation, vouching
for known individuals, and challenging suspicious users.

79

Protocol Labs





Founded in 2014 by Juan Benet, Protocol Labs is an open-source
research, development, and deployment laboratory that connects
organizations across various technological fields such as web3, AI,
AR, VR, BCI, and hardware. It is an innovation network dedicated to
advancing breakthroughs in computing to propel humanity
forward, with over 600 members, including tech startups, funds,
accelerators, foundations, and open-source projects. Collaboration
within the network facilitates problem-solving, knowledge sharing,
and resource allocation, accelerating the R&D process. Protocol
Labs, with a team of more than 100 members, aims to improve
human existence by orders of magnitude through technology.  


Tornado Cash
Tornado Cash is a fully decentralized protocol for private transactions
on Ethereum. It enables permissionless, shielded transactions
without custodial risks, using zero-knowledge cryptography to
maintain privacy and security. Due to Ethereum's network design, the
protocol is immutable and cannot be tampered with. Tornado Cash
utilizes "anonymity pools," which relay funds and disguise them
among random deposits, enhancing privacy. The longer funds remain
deposited, the more transactions occur, and the harder it becomes to trace the source
without specialized analysis software. Despite accusations, the community maintains that
Tornado Cash is a tool for private Ethereum transactions, essential to preserving freedom.
Tornado Cash was developed with the belief that financial privacy is essential, but it faced
significant challenges in 2022. On August 8, 2022, the U.S. government sanctioned Tornado
Cash, making it illegal for U.S. citizens to interact with the protocol or governance contracts.

80

Molecule
Molecule is an Ethereum-based biotechnology research protocol, marketplace, and
launchpad to democratize access to IP and invigorate scientific discovery. Since its inception
in 2022, Molecule has invented the hybrid legal-smart contract IP-NFT, which tokenizes
research project legal rights, data access, and economics. The Marketplace helps researchers
and funders agree on concrete research proposal deals. Additional volume is driven by the
BioDAO launchpad, where patients, researchers, and supporters can coordinate to fund
70 This can help fill traditional funding gaps and
research in specific areas and govern the IP.

capture the unique perspective and knowledge of the crowd.

Optimism Collective
The Optimism Collective is a collaborative
effort involving companies, communities,
and individuals to reward public goods
and

81

build

a

sustainable

Ethereum.

Known

approach,

the

for

future

its

Collective

for

innovative
seeks

to

demonstrate that public goods can be

The Collective focuses on several key

profitable,

adhering

initiatives to achieve its goals. These

"Impact

Profit." They

=

to

the

principle

implement

a

include

developing

decentralized

retroactive public goods funding model,

infrastructure

now known as “public goods funding,” to

democratic governance through the Token

support projects and communities that

House and Citizens' House. Additionally,

contribute to the common good of the

the

network. Their mission is to create a new

network of blockchains supported by and

internet that benefits everyone and is

designed to distribute power more evenly.

owned by no one. To date, the Collective

The

has allocated 850M OP to Retro Funding.

collaborative, innovative environment by

This year they also ran the largest online

supporting

global art contest with 1.2M OP in prizes.

providing legal and operational support.

Superchain

Optimism

and

is

leading

an

interconnected

Collective

open-source

digital

fosters

projects

a
and

Ethereum Attestation Service

The Ethereum Attestation Service (EAS) is a public infrastructure that enables the creation
and verification of onchain and offchain attestations. By unifying the fragmented state of
digital identity, this brings more clarity and trust to communities all over.
Committed to being a public good, EAS emphasizes its opensource, permissionless, and tokenless nature to ensure
neutrality and integrity in the attestation ecosystem. It focuses
on value creation over value extraction, prioritizing impact
over profit. Through their open-source model and unrestricted
access to tools and knowledge, EAS empowers developers and
entities to evolve existing projects and create novel solutions
that amplify collaboration and collective success.

Solidity
Solidity is a Turing-complete programming
language for writing smart contracts on the
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). It is opensource and governed by a core team
sponsored by the Ethereum Foundation,
with

contributions

from

the

broader

community through GitHub commits and
bug reports. Released in 2015, Solidity is
still

under

development, growing

evolving

alongside

prioritizing

ease

of

and

Ethereum.

Initially

use,

team

the

increasingly focuses on enhancing security
and reducing vulnerabilities.

82

LexDAO
LexDAO is a club of legal engineering professionals dedicated to bringing legal frameworks
into code and making coded agreements accessible. They aim to develop and promote legal
methods and blockchain protocols that secure rules and promises with code instead of trust.
They train certified legal engineers and build certified blockchain applications, focusing on
"Code is Law" applications that embed legal theory into smart contracts and networks.
Since 2019, LexDAO has undertaken various projects to lower
legal service costs through automation, enhance human
collaboration, and reduce expenses. They recently secured a grant
to publish annual reports. LexDAO focuses on governance, terms
and conditions, enforceable contracts, on-chain settlement,
escrow, and clawbacks. Notable initiatives include Real World
Asset (RWA) projects like Tater and Cougar, which advance web3
real estate by digitizing tangible assets and enabling fractional
ownership. This allows people to purchase tokens representing
portions of assets like real estate or bonds. Another significant
project LexDAO contributes to is Smart Invoice, an open-source
cryptocurrency invoicing, escrow, and arbitration tool.


RnDAO

RnDAO is a digital swarm driving the future of work. As a research-led venture studio and
product ecosystem, it partners with and builds modular collaboration-tech tools. RnDAO
assembles cross-disciplinary teams for in-depth research on topics like sub-DAOs, web3
community health, rewards, and decentralized leadership. These insights support the
incubation and creation of successful ventures. Additionally, RnDAO actively uses the tools
and research it develops.
Since 2021, RnDAO has conducted 13+ research
initiatives, incubated five collaboration tech startups,
launched a Co.Lab partnership with ArbitrumDAO,
hosted talks from 17+ tech experts, and doubled its
Discord and newsletter community. RnDAO
incubated Together Crew, a data analytics framework
operationalizing and measuring community health.
83

Impact
Measurement

"The Commons Stack is an experiment in translating
the patterns of commons-based peer production into
deployable

community

ecosystems

using

web3

technologies."

- Michael Zargham

86

Impact Measurement

Addressing social and environmental challenges is critical in today's world. Impact
measurement assesses the outcomes of projects, programs, or investments, ensuring they
contribute positively to sustainable development. This process involves setting goals,
collecting data, analyzing results, and using insights to improve strategies and maximize
positive impacts.



These types of measurements are vital for accountability, informed decision-making,
attracting funding, regulatory compliance, and continuous improvement. They provide a
clear picture of outcomes, fostering trust among contributors, helping organizations
allocate resources efficiently, and optimizing strategies based on what works best.

87

Various tools help measure impact and make it easier for developers to create software
One can
focus
is aid
educating
excluded
from
traditional
banking
systems,
as
that
easily
impact those
initiatives.
Whether
onboarding
new
users from
Web2such
to Web3
migrants,
asylum
seekers,
and unbanked
individuals,
on using
access
financiala
or
new users
from
emerging
markets, impact
tooling
plays crypto
a vital to
role
in creating
resources. Offering
face-to-face
workshops
or partnering
with
localequally
support
groups
regenerative
world where
resources
and enlightened
ideas can
spread
across
the
promotes financial inclusion and reduces transaction risks.


globe. 



Other
initiatives
provide software
and product
development
training for youths
and
In
short,
impact measurement
is essential
for modern
project management,
investment,
students,
withadvanced
universities
offering inprograms
that can
foster
a new
and
grant partnering
strategies. The
toolsand
mentioned
this section
significantly
generation
of blockchain
developers and
users.
These efforts
young people
enhance
the
accuracy, transparency,
and
effectiveness
of ensure
impactthat
assessments
and
have the skills
neededthat
to thrive
into
the
blockchain
industry.
onboarding,
ensuring
efforts
address
global
challenges are credible and impactful.

88

Hypercerts








Hypercerts is an open-source blockchain protocol that improves funding and rewards
positive impacts. Its goal is to enhance public trust in funding public goods. Since its
inception as a research project at Protocol Labs, Hypercerts has developed a new standard
for digital tokens that capture and store data about project impacts.
Projects use Hypercerts for various purposes, primarily to secure
funding for their created impact. When a project undertakes
impactful activities, it can mint a fractionated Hypercert and sell
portions to donors, who then store them as proof of contribution.
The funds received go to the initiative contributors. Hypercerts
serve both as a measure of impact dictated by donor
contributions and proof of impact.

KarmaGap
KarmaGap, known for its Grantee Accountability Protocol(GAP), focuses on enhancing
transparency and accountability in managing community-issued grants. KarmaGap ensures
that all data related to grant issuance and progress are immutably recorded to foster a
transparent environment that discourages fraud and encourages accountability. By
integrating GAP with various platforms and communities like Optimism and Arbitrum,
KarmaGap has managed hundreds of grants and implemented decentralized review features.



This is a major breakthrough in the public goods grants space
as the grantee’s milestone accountability allows donors to
see their donations' impact. This leads to more donations for
projects that report and accomplish their milestones,
vicariously increasing the continuous impact.


89

Evercity










Evercity

is

founded

a

in

Berlin-based
2018

company

specializing

blockchain

technology

for

investment.

Its

mission

primary

in

impact

transparency

and

prevents

greenwashing,

enabling the issuance of fully traceable green
digital

assets.

This

instills

confidence

in

is

investors about the sustainability and impact of

accelerating global financial flows into

their investments. The platform is particularly

projects supporting the United Nations

useful

Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

supporting

The

employees, Evercity is a venture-backed private

platform

aims

to

enhance

for

banks,

funds,

SDG-aligned

and

corporations

projects.

With

16

transparency, accountability, and liquidity

company

in

automating

investors like the FinTech Innovation Lab and

management,

Techstars. The company's innovative approach

impact

investments

sustainable

finance

issuance,
blockchain,

and

by

monitoring.

smart

contracts,

Using
and

monitoring tools, Evercity ensures data

AI

that

has

raised

$520,000

from

positions it at the intersection of financial
software,

environmental

services,

and

productivity software sectors.


PACT



The Partnership for Carbon Transparency (PACT) is a global initiative launched in 2021 to
standardize the measurement and communication of Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions across value chains. They provide guidelines for reporting GHG emissions in areas
like travel, freight transport, and production of goods and services, promoting transparency,
traceability, and interoperability among carbon management solutions.

Standardization

helps

organizations

decarbonize

more

effectively

and

supports

the

development of carbon credit markets. PACT is also developing the Pathfinder Network, a
decentralized peer-to-peer system for sharing emission data and analysis. This open
coordination aids businesses and governments in implementing effective decarbonization
measures, and PACT further assists by connecting organizations with regulators.


90

Thrive Protocol
Thrive Protocol is focused on enhancing value creation within web3 communities,
prioritizing long-term values over short-term transaction volumes. Their impact is evident in
collaborations with communities like Arbitrum, Octant, and ApeCoin. Thrive develops smart
contracts and applications that facilitate identifying, funding, and validating community
contributions across various platforms and real-life implementations.

















Open Source Observer
Open Source Observer (OSO) is known for its analytics suite, which was designed to measure
the impact of Open Source Software (OSS) contributions and grant mechanisms on
ecosystem health. OSO creates comprehensive views of OSS contributions by incorporating
on-chain and off-chain data. They have curated a massive database of projects and previous
grant rounds in the public goods space, bringing value to networks and protocols such as
Optimism, Arbitrum, GitCoin, and many other EVM chains.

Led by a team of talented data analysts, OSO continually
expands its database, allowing any contributor to add value
by including more projects for benchmarking and informed
decision-making. As ecosystem metrics grow in the public
goods space, OSO serves as a foundational resource hub,
providing access to information for anyone looking to
develop sensible strategies based on comprehensive data.


91

Climate Coordination Network





















The Climate Coordination Network (CCN) combats climate change through collaborative
efforts, uniting governments, NGOs, private sectors, and local communities. CCN amplifies the
impact of individual initiatives by fostering cooperation on projects ranging from renewable
energy to conservation. Using tools like Hypercerts, CCN ensures efforts are transparent and
tamper-proof, building stakeholder trust. Smart contracts automate fund disbursement and
compliance verification processes, reducing administrative overhead.

CCN's blockchain use extends to secure data management
and

impact

measurement, providing

real-time

access

to

emissions, energy usage, and other metrics. This allows for
easy

verification

Through

and

decentralized

auditing

of

climate

decision-making, CCN

initiatives.
gives

local

communities a voice in project design and implementation,
leading to effective and locally tailored climate solutions.
 

Commons Stack
Commons Stack empowers communities to self-govern by managing shared resources and
promoting

participatory

governance.

Their

model

emphasizes

grassroots

participation,

openness, independence, and individual responsibility, fostering healthy communities and
moving away from extractive capitalist models toward regenerative frameworks. Commons
Stack

creates

sustainable.

tools

Their

and

frameworks

initiatives

include

to
the

help

initiatives

CommonsDAO,

become

economic

self-governing

and

co-design,

the

and

Commons Incubator. They offer a toolkit featuring the Augmented Bonding Curve (ABC),
Conviction Voting, Hatch, Praise, Tokenlog, and Commons Simulator.


Founded in 2019, Commons Stack has significantly contributed to the
Open

Source

sustainable

movement

management,

communities.

They

by

developing

and

specialize

unique
in

regenerative

funding

merging

tools

culture

economics,
for

impact

with

token

engineering, guiding organizations to create structures that promote
active participation, cooperation, and accountability. Over the past five
years, Commons Stack has supported dozens of projects, providing
insights and tools for funding and coordinating public goods projects.


92

Proof of Impact














 


Proof of Impact is dedicated to enhancing the credibility and transparency of social and
environmental impact through advanced technology. They provide verifiable and immutable
records of impact metrics, ensuring accurate tracking and reporting of project outcomes.
Their mission is to build trust among investors, donors, and stakeholders by offering clear
and auditable evidence of positive changes driven by their investments. To achieve this, the
organization secures and authenticates impact data, reducing the risk of manipulation and
fraud. Smart contracts automate verification, releasing funds only when predefined impact
milestones are achieved, promoting accountability and efficiency.
Additionally, Proof of Impact employs data analytics to measure and report on project outcomes.
Their platform aggregates data from various sources, providing a comprehensive view of the
impact generated by different initiatives. This approach allows stakeholders to make informed
decisions based on reliable data, ensuring effective resource allocation. By combining blockchain
with data analytics, the organization revolutionizes impact measurement and reporting, helping
organizations demonstrate their contributions to sustainable development goals.


Boost.xyz

Boost.xyz is a platform that uses onchain tools to reward social and environmental impact.
Smart contracts automate the distribution of rewards and incentives once specific criteria,
such as impact metrics or project milestones, are met. This system eliminates the need for
intermediaries, reducing administrative costs and delays while ensuring fairness and prompt
payment. Users engage with various impact initiatives, such as reforestation projects, and
receive incentives verified through on-chain data, encouraging active participation and
greater contributions to impactful projects. Boost.xyz creates a sustainable cycle of impact
and rewards, maximizing the effectiveness of social and environmental efforts.


93

One focus is educating those excluded from traditional banking systems, such as
migrants, asylum seekers, and unbanked individuals, on using crypto to access financial
resources. Offering face-to-face workshops or partnering with local support groups
promotes financial inclusion and reduces transaction risks.



Other initiatives provide software and product development training for youths and
students, partnering with universities and offering programs that foster a new
generation of blockchain developers and users. These efforts ensure that young people
have the skills needed to thrive in the blockchain industry.

Closing Thoughts

The aim of On-chain Impact Networks is to highlight areas in which blockchain has
facilitated tangible change in the world. To readers in the space, we hope we have
inspired you to contribute to one or more areas showcased in this book. To those
outside of the space, we hope to have sparked some curiosity about how blockchain
can be used for good, perhaps shifting preconceived notions about crypto.



In the process of writing this book, it has become clear how difficult it is to define and
measure impact. We encourage everyone in the space, including ourselves, to make an
effort to present results clearly, as they can sometimes get lost amid the buzzwords.
We want to show, not simply talk about theories. The more we are able to showcase
how crypto is regenerating the world with tangible examples, the more we can inspire
the next wave of onboarded impact makers to leverage blockchain to create a more
positive-sum world.



Coordination can be challenging, with many steps from vision to execution (take it
from us in writing this book as a collective to form a unified voice). However, what
would be impossible for an individual becomes achievable by a collective; one ant
alone could never carry the load, but in a synchronized group, it becomes easy.




95

Never underestimate the power of simply getting started. Whether that be learning
more about crypto and blockchain, contributing to a network, starting your own
impact-focused project, or simply remaining curious vs closed to what crypto has the
potential to do when used for good. We all need to start somewhere.


What is highlighted in this book is that no matter what ecosystem you work in, there
are ways for it to leverage and use blockchain to help build a more sustainable,
impactful, and win-win world. As the blockchain ecosystem continues to evolve and
mature, we will see more and more communities, DAOs, protocols, and blockchains
leverage crypto for regenerative efforts. We hope to see more local governments and
organizations around the globe experiment with this technology in an effort to
change outdated systems and support systemic change. There is no shortage of ways
one can leverage blockchain, and we hope to see more experiments in the near
future. 


We would like to offer our sincere gratitude to everyone who contributed in some
shape or form to the projects included in this book for the work you have already
done, and we urge you to continue the valuable work you are doing. This book
wouldn’t be possible without the thousands of people actively contributing to help
create a positive impact in the world through blockchain technology.




96

On-Chain Impact Networks: How Crypto Is Being Used To 

Regenerate The World helps the reader discover how
blockchain technology is revolutionizing efforts to
create a more sustainable, equitable, and
regenerative world. This book delves into eight key
Impact Domains where blockchain is driving
significant and constructive change:


• Decentralized Science

• Community Funding 

• Regenerative Finance

• Climate and Environmental REGENeration

• Culture

• Education

• Infrastructure

• Impact Measurement


On-Chain Impact Networks is a testament to the power
of collective action and how new technology is
allowing us to coordinate and help solve some of the
worlds largest problems. Whether you’re a seasoned
blockchain enthusiast or simply curious, this book
will inspire you to explore how blockchain is being
used for good. Join us on this journey towards a
positive-sum future.

